GEORGES SEURAT 

BY JOHN REWALD 

(J7 illustrations, including 2 detail 
photographs. 

In IS is the first complete monograph 
in English or French on Semat. tell- 
ing the story of his life, giving a clear 
exposition of his theories, as well as a 
history ol the ^\•hole neo-impressionist 
movement. 

John Rewald, who. in his books on 
Cezanne. Gauguin and Maillol made 
an important contribution to oin- 
knowledge of these artists, assinnes in 
this work the task of a pioneer, bring- 
ing to life a painter of whom little is 
kno\\'n. 

lni; illustrations, arranged chrono- 
logically, trace Seurat's artistic de\el- 
ojjment, show the genesis of his major 
jjaintings through the ntunerous pre- 
paratory sketches and represent his 
technifjue in photographs of details. 
Reproductions of works by Pissarro, 
\'an (iogh, (iauguin. Signac a.o. show 
I he iiilhience exerted by Seinai. 



WrnKNHORN AND (X)MPANY 

Books on I he I'iitc Ails 
'}8 East r,7th Street, New York 22. N.Y. 



PTOpcilV 01 

The HiUa von Rebay Foundation 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2012 with funding from 

IVIetropolitan New York Library Council - METRO 



http://archive.org/details/georgesOOrewa 



BOOKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR 

CEZANNE 
SA VIE, SON OEUVRE, SON AMITIE POUR ZOLA 

ALBIN MICHEL, PARIS, 1939 

GAUGUIN 

HYPERION, NEW YORK, I938 

MAILLOL 

HYPERION, NEW YORK, 1939 



EDITED BY THE SAME AUTHOR 
PAUL CEZANNE, LETTERS 

BRUNO CASSIRER, LONDON, 1941 

PAUL GAUGUIN 
LETTERS TO A. VOLLARD AND A. FONTAINAS 

GRABHORN PRESS, SAN FRANCISCO, I943 

CAMILLE PISSARRO, LETTERS TO HIS SON LUCIEN 

IN PREPARATION 

THE WOODCUTS OF ARISTIDE MAILLOL 
A Complete Catalogue 

IN PREPARATION 



GEORGES SEURAT 




Photograph of Georges Seurat. 



JOHN REWALD 



GEORGES SEURAT 



nm 




(Ic^lQ^J^'-O'-x 




WITTENBORN AND COMPANY 



NEW YORK 1943 



TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH MANUSCRIPT BY LIONEL ABEL 



THIS BOOK IS DESIGNED BY THE AUTHOR 

COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY WITTENBORN AND COMPANY, 38 EAST 57TH STREET, NEW YORK 22, N. Y. ALL RIGHTS 
RESERVED. EXCEPT FOR REVIEWERS, NO ONE MAY REPRODUCE ANY PART OF THIS BOOK IN ANY FORM 
WITHOUT OBTAINING THE AUTHOR'S PERMISSION IN WRITING. 

MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. FIRST EDITION. 



TO 

MY FRIEND 

FELIX FENEON 

WITH 

GRATITUDE AND 

ADMIRATION 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xi 

INTRODUCTION xvii 

THE BEGINNING i 

SALON DES INDEPENDANTS 13 

A SUNDAY AFTERNOON ON THE ISLAND OF LA GRANDE JATTE . 19 

THE EIGHTH EXHIBITION OF THE IMPRESSIONISTS ... 27 

FELIX FENEON AND THE NEO-IMPRESSIONISTS 33 

NEW EXHIBITIONS: NEW YORK, PARIS, BRUSSELS . . . . 37 

SEURAT AND HIS FRIENDS 43 

SEURAT'S THEORIES 57 

PRAISE AND DISPRAISE 63 

THE LAST WORKS 69 

NOTES 



PLATES 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



INDEX 



75 



119 



124 



ERRA TA 

p. xi No. 8 should be No. 9 on page 6. 

No. 9 should be No. 8 on page 7. 
p. xiii No. 50 read: p. 84 instead of p. 8^. 

No. 55 read: William Rockhill Nelson Gallery 

of Art, Kansas City, instead of Stephen C. 

Clark collection. 

p. XV No. 88 read: p. no instead of p. iii. 
p. 14 6th line read Clarelie instead of Claret ie. 
p. 74 3rd line read: March 29 instead of March ip. 
gth line read: / believe instead of / belief. 

p. 120 16th line, second column, read: /. /. Sweeney 
instead of /. /. Sweeny. 

p. 124 1st line, second column, read Claretie instead 
of Claretie. 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



With the exception of those paintings whose French titles are well known, the captions for the re- 
productions have been translated; but in some cases the original title is given in brackets. Sizes are 
given in inches, height precedes width. 

Opposite the title page: Photograph of Georges Seurat. 

Illustrations in the Text 

1. G. Seurat: Studies from Plaster Casts, about 1874. Drawing, 914 x 534. In the 
author's collection. 2 

2. G. Seurat: Study of a Leg, about 1875. Drawing, gS/g x 6i/g. In the author's col- 
lection. 2 

3. G. Seurat: Sir Richard Southwell, Copy of Holbein's drawing, 1877. Drawing, 

934 x 734. Private collection. 3 

4. G. Seurat: Detail of Poussin's Self-Portrait in the Louvre, about 1877. Draw- 
ing, 83/g X 5%. In the author's collection. 3 

5. G. Seurat: Andromeda on the Rock, Copy from Ingres' painting, about 1878. 

Oil on canvas, 32 x 2514. Private collection. 4 

6. G. Seurat: The Source copied from Ingres' painting, about 1878. Drawing, 15 x 
1914. In the author's collection. 4 

7. G. Seurat: The Sleeping Shepherd, about 1878. Drawing, 91^4 x 1234. In the 
author's collection. 5 

8. G. Seurat: Studies of Hands, 1880. Drawing, 57/^ x 914. (Page from a notebook 
in which Seurat made sketches while serving as a conscript at Brest.) In the au- 
thor's collection. 6 

9. G. Seurat: Studies of Women, 1880. Drawing, 57/^ x 914. (Page from a note- 
book in which Seurat made sketches while serving as a conscript at Brest.) In 

the author's collection. 7 

10. G. Seurat: Detail from a painting done in 1882. (Boy with Cow, Oil on canvas. 
Bignou Gallery.) Original size. 9 

11. G. Seurat: Portrait of the Painter Aman-Jean, 1882. Conte crayon drawing, 
243^4 X 18^. Stephen C. Clark collection. 11 

12. G. Seurat: Still Life of Clothes, Study for "Une Baignade," 1883-84. Conte 
crayon drawing, gi/^ x iiT/g- Jacques Seligmann 8c Co. 12 

13. G. Seurat: Study of a Leg for "Une Baignade," 1883-84. Conte crayon drawing, 

91/2 x 12 1/2. Jacques Seligmann & Co. 15 



14- G. Seurat: Torso of a Bather, Study for "Une Baignade," 1883. Conte crayon 

drawing, 1214 x 9I/2. Mme Berthe Paul Signac collection. 17 

15. People Sitting on a Riverbank near Paris. From an old photograph. 20 

16. G. Seurat: Study for "La Grande Jatte," croqueton, about 1884. Oil on wood 
panel, 6 x gi/^. Mr. and Mrs. Howard J. Sachs collection. 21 

17. G. Seurat: Dog, Study for "La Grande Jatte," about 1885. Contc crayon draw- 
ing, 914 X 12 14. Private collection. 22 

18. G. Seurat: Monkey, Study for "La Grande Jatte," 1884. Conte crayon drawing. 
Miss Adelaide M. de Groot collection. 23 

19. G. Seurat: Detail from "La Grande Jatte," 1884-86, Reduction scale, 1:3.5. 25 

20. P. Signac: Profile of Felix Feneon, 1890. Study for "Sur I'email d'un fond ryth- 
micjue de mesures et d'angles, de tons et de teintes, portrait de M. F^lix Feneon 

en 1890." Drawing, 4 x 314. In the author's collection. 35 

21. H. de Toulouse-Lautrec: Portrait of Felix Feneon. Detail from the Booth of 

La Goulue at the "Foire du Trone," 1895. Oil on canvas, Luxembourg Museum. 35 

22. G. Seurat: L'Entrce du Port de Honfleur, 1886. Conte crayon drawing. 12 x 

8^. Knoedler Galleries. 39 

23. G. Seurat: Still Life, Study for "Les Poseuses," 1887. Conte crayon drawing. 
Felix Feneon collection. 41 

24. E. Laurent: Portrait of Georges Seurat, 1883. Drawing, 1514 x iii/2- Luxem- 
bourg Museum. 43 

25. M. Luce: Portrait of H.-E. Cross, about 1890. Drawing, 934 x 65/^. In the au- 
thor's collection. 44 

26. M. Luce: Portrait of Caniille Pissarro, 1890. Drawing, 5 x 414. In the author's 
collection. 44 

27. G. Seurat: Portrait of Paul Signac, 1889-90. Conte crayon drawing, 131/^ x 11. 
Mme Berthe Paul Signac collection. 45 

28. G. Seurat: Portrait of Paul Alexis, 1888. Conte crayon drawing. This drawing 
published in La Vie Moderne in 1888 has since disappeared. 45 

29. M. Luce: View of Montmartre, 1887. Oil on canvas, 18 x 32. Formerly in Ca- 
niille Pissarro's collection. 46 

30. P. Signac: Gas-meters at Clichy, 1886. Oil on canvas. Private collection. 47 

31. C. Pissarro: Ihe Railroad to Dieppe, 1886. Oil on canvas, 21 14 x 253/^. Durand- 
Ruel Galleries. 48 

32. T. van Ryssei.berghe: The Reading (V^erhaeren and his Friends), 1903. (Stand- 
ing, left to right: Felix Feneon and Henri Ghcon; sitting: Felix Le Dantcc, 
Emile Verhaeren, Francis Viclc-Grilini, H.-E. Cross, Andre Gide and Maurice 
Maeterlinck). Oil on canvas, Musee de Gand. 49 

33. V. van Gc)(;h: Interior of a Restainaiu in Paris, about 1887. Oil on canvas, 17.34 

X 21 14. RiikMiuiscuni KroUer-Mulkr, Oiterlo. 50 

34. P. Gauguin: Still Lile, Ripipoint, 1889. Oil on canvas, i23/^ x 151/2- Mi", and 
Mrs. Chester Dale collection. 51 

35. G. Seurat: Man Dining, The Artist's Father, about 1884. Conte crayon draw- 
ing, 1214 X 8.34. Mine Berthe Paul Signac collection. 52 



36. G. Seurat: Woman Sewing, The Artist's Mother, about 1884. Conte crayon 
drawing, laT/g x gi^. Museum ot Modern Art, N. Y. (Lillie P. Bliss collection). 53 

37. G. Seurat: Saltimbanques, Couple Dancing, about 1886. Conte crayon drawing, 

9I/2 X 12 14. Mme Berthe Paul Signac collection. 54 

38. G. Seurat: The Artist in his Studio, about 1884. Conte crayon drawing, 12I/G 

X 9. Philadelphia Museum of Art (A. E. Gallatin collection). 55 

39. M. Luce: Portrait of Georges Seurat, 1890. Drawing. 55 

40. G. Seurat: The Stove in Seurat's Studio, Study for "Les Poseuses," 1887. Conte 
crayon drawing. Felix Feneon collection. 57 

41. Two pages of Seurat's letter to M. Beaubourg, August 1890. Felix Feneon collec- 
tion. 61 

42. G. Seurat: Saltimbanques, The Dancer and the Cashier, about 1886. Conte 
crayon drawing. Mme Berthe Paul Signac collection. 68 

43. G. Seurat: The Harbor of Gravelines, 1890. Conte crayon drawing, 11^ x 

834. Knoedler Galleries. 70 

44. G. Seurat: The Drawbridge, about 1890. Conte crayon drawing, 133^ x 18. 
Sam Lewisohn collection. 71 

45. G. Seurat: Study for "Le Cirque," 1890. Conte crayon drawing. 73 

Plates 

46. Flowers in a Vase, about 1880. Oil on canvas, 181/8 x 151/8- Private collection. 81 

47. Head of a Young Girl, about 1879. Oil on cardboard, 11I/8 x 9I/2. Harvard Uni- 
versity, Dinnbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection. 81 

48. The Mower, about 1879. Oil on wood panel, 7 x 1014. Wildenstein Galleries. 82 

49. Landscape, about 1882. Oil on canvas, 15 x i8i/^. Knoedler Galleries. 83 

50. Suburb, 1883. Oil on canvas, 13 x 1614. Felix Feneon collection. 83 

51. Peasant Hoeing, about 1884. Oil on canvas, i8i/^ x 213^. Solomon R. Guggen- 
heim collection. 85 

52. The Two Banks, Study for "Une Baignade," croqueton, 1883. Oil on wood 
panel, 614 x gs/^. W. Mclnnes collection. 86 

53. Horses in the Seine, Study for "Une Baignade," croqueton, 1883. Oil on wood 
panel, 6 x 934. Samuel Courtauld collection. 86 

54. People Sitting in the Grass, Study for "Une Baignade," croqueton, 1883. Oil on 
wood panel, 6 x gV/g. Maurice Denis collection. 87 

55. The Bank of the Seine, Study for "Une Baignade," croqueton, 1883. Oil on 
wood panel, 67/g x loS/g. Stephen C. Clark collection. 87 

56. Seated Nude, Study for "Une Baignade," 1883-84. Conte crayon drawing, 121/0 

X 9I/2. Private collection. 88 

57. Echo, Study for "Une Baignade," 1883-84. Conte crayon drawing, i2i/4 '^ 9^- 
Wildenstein Galleries. 88 

58. Une Baignade, Asnieres, 1883-84. Oil on canvas, 79 x 1181/0. Tate Gallery, 
London. 89 

59. The Seine at Courbevoie, 1885. Oil on canvas, 32^ x 26. Mme Charles Cachin- 
Signac collection. 90 



6o. Setting Sun, Grandcamp, 1885. Oil on canvas, 31 x 37. Mr. and Mrs. D. M. Levy 
collection. 



9» 



61. The Harbor of Grandcamp [La Rade de Grandcamp], 1885. Oil on canvas, 
25^ X 31^. Private collection. 92 

62. Le Bee du Hoc, Grandcamp, 1885. Oil on canvas, 25^/^ x 32. Sir Kenneth Clark 
collection. 93 

63. L'lle de la Grande Jatte, 1885. Conte crayon drawing, 15^ x 24. Andre Berthel- 
lemy collection. 94 

64. L'lle de la Grande Jatte, 1884. Oil on canvas, 25^ x 32. Mrs. Chester Beatty 
collection. 94 

65. Study for "La Grande Jatte," croqueton, 1885. Oil on wood panel, 6^ x 1014. 
David O. Selznick collection. 95 

66. Study for "La Grande Jatte," croqueton, 1885. Oil on wood panel. Private col- 
lection. 95 

67. Woman with Parasol, Study for "La Grande Jatte," about 1885. Conte crayon 
drawing, 12I/2 x 91/2- Formerly Arthur B. Davies collection. 96 

68. The Couple, Study for "La Grande Jatte," about 1885. Conte crayon drawing, 
11^ X 9. Cesar M. de Haucke collection. 96 

69. Woman with Monkey, Study for "La Grande Jatte," croqueton, about 1885. Oil 

on wood panel, 934 x 6. The Smith College Museum of Art. 97 

70. The Couple, Study for "La Grande Jatte," croqueton, 1884-85. Oil on wood 
panel, 9^ x 614. Private collection. 97 

71. Study for "La Grande Jatte," 1884-85. Oil on canvas, 27^ x 41. Sam Lewisohn 
collection. 98 

72. A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte, [Un dimanche apres- 
midi a I'ile de la Grande Jatte] 1884-86. Oil on canvas, 811,4 ^ '2014. Art In- 
stitute Chicago (Helen Birch Bartlett Memorial collection). 99 

73. The Hospice and the Lighthouse of Honfleur, [L'hospice ct le phare a Hon- 
fleur] 1886. Oil on canvas, 255/g x 32. Mrs. Chester Beatty collection. 100 

74. The Bridge of Courbevoie, 1886-87. Oil on canvas, i8i/g x 2134. Samuel Cour- 
tauld collection. 101 

75. Trombone Player, Study for "La Parade," autumn 1887. Conte crayon drawing 
with gouache, i2i/^ x 9I/4. Henry P. Mcllhenny collection. 102 

76. Study for "La Parade," croqueton, autumn 1887. Oil on wood panel, 6.^4 x 
9!/^. Jacques Seligmann & Co. 102 

77. La Parade, 1887-88. Oil on canvas, 391/^ x 59'/^. Stephen C. Clark collection. 103 

78. Model Standing, Study for "Les Poseuses," 1887. Conte crayon drawing, iiT/g 

X 9I/2. Formerly Maximilien Luce collection. 104 

79. Model Standing, Study for "Les Poseuses," croqueton, 1887. Oil on wood panel. 

9^ /iG ^ ^'YiG- Felix Feneon collection. 104 

80. Model Standing, 1888. Crayon and ink drawing. Jean-Charles Moreux coll. 
(This drawing published in 1888 in La Vie Moderne seems to have been spe- 
cially made in order to reproduce a section from the large canxas "Les Po- 
seuses.") 104 



8i. Model in Profile, Study for "Les Poseuses," croqueton, 1887. Oil on wood panel, 

gT/g X 614. Felix Feneon collection. 105 

82. Model Seen from the Back, Study for "Les Poseuses," croqueton, 1887. Oil on 
wood panel, 9^ x 6i/^. Felix Feneon collection. 105 

83. Les Poseuses (smaller version), 1888. Oil on canvas, 15I/4 x 1914. Henry P. McII- 
henny collection. 106 

84. Les Poseuses, 1887-88. Oil on canvas, 79 x 98^. Barnes Foundation, Merion. 107 

85. Grey Weather, Grande Jatte, about 1887. Oil on canvas, 27I/2 x 33I/8. Private 
collection. 108 

86. Les Grues et la Percee, Port-en-Bessin, 1888. Oil on canvas, 255/3 x 32. Mr. and 
Mrs. W. Averell Harriman collection. 109 

87. At the "Concert Europeen," about 1887. Conte crayon drawing with gouache, 

12 14 X 98/^. Museum of Modern Art, N. Y. (Lillie P. Bliss collection). 1 10 

88. Study for "Le Chahut," 1889. Oil on canvas, 263/^ x 231^6. Albright Art Gal- 
lery, Buffalo. 1 1 1 

89. Study for "Le Chahut," 1889. Samuel Courtauld collection. 111 

90. Le Chahut, 1889-90. Oil on canvas, 67 x 55%(j- Rijksmuseum KroUer-Miiller, 
Otterlo. 1 1 1 

91. Le Crotoy, Seaside, 1889. Oil on canvas, 27^ x 34. Edward G. Robinson col- 
lection. 112 



92. The Chenal de Gravelines, an Evening, 1890. Oil on canvas, 255/3 x 32. Rolf de 
Mare collection. 



113 



93. The Chenal de Gravelines, Grand Fort Philippe, 1890. Oil on canvas, 255/^ x 32. 
Samuel Courtauld collection. 1 14 

94. The Chenal de Gravelines, Petit Fort Philippe, 1890. Oil on canvas, 2834 x 
3614. Bignou Galleries. 115 

95. Jeune femme se poudrant, 1889-90. Oil on canvas, 3714 x 31 14. National Gal- 
lery, London. 1 16 

96. Le Cirque, 1890-91. Oil on canvas, 73 x 59I/8. Louvre Museum. 117 

Photographs for Figs. 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 20, 22, 25, 26, 31, 34, 43, 44, 46, 49, 51, 53, 
57, 58, 68, 69, 82, 89, 90, 92, 93, 94 and 95 were supplied by the owners of the respective 
works. 

Photo Druet, Paris: 21, 54, 67, 70. 

Photo Vizzavona, Paris: 50, 52, 64, 66. 

Photo Bignou Galleries: 5, 47, 61, 62. 

Photo Jacques Seligmann & Co.: 38, 91. 

Photo Wildenstein Galleries: 60, 65, 79, 88. 

Photo Museum of Modern Art: 33. 

Photo Fogg Art Museum: 83. 

Photo Art Institute Chicago: 19. 

Photo Braun & Co., Paris: 30. 

Figs. 3, 12, 14, 18, 23, 27, 35, 37, 40, 42, 45 and 56 are reproduced after Les Dessins de 
Seurat, Paris 1926. 



Fig. 15 is reproduced after A. Warnod, J'isnges de Paris, Paris 1930. 

Figs. 24, 39 and 41 are reproduced after R. Rey, La renaissance du sentiment classique, 
Paris 1931. 

Fig. 28 is reproduced after La Vie Moderne, 1888. 

Fig. 29 is reproduced after La Collection Camille Pissarro (Sales catalogue, Paris, De- 
cember 3, 1928). 

Fig. 32 is reproduced after V. Pica, Gl'impressionisti Francesi, Bergamo 1908. 

The photograph of Seurat is reproduced after L. Cousturier, Seiirat, second edition, Paris 
1926. 

The photograph for Fig. 10 was specially made for this book. 
Cuts for Figs. 1 1 and 59 were lent by the Art Foundation, Inc. 

Cuts for Figs. 16, 36, 48, 55, 71, 73, 74, 87 were lent by the Museum of Modern Art, N. Y. 
Cuts for Figs. 72, 75, 76, 77, 78, 80, 81, 84, 85, 86 were lent by the College Art Association 
of America. 



xvi 



INTRODUCTION 



"An unbiased mind perceives with stupefaction that even in his first produc- 
tions, even in his youth, he was great. At times he may have been more deli- 
cate, at times more singular, at times he may have been more of a painter, but 
he was always great." These words, written by Baudelaire about Eugene Dela- 
croix, are surely relevant to Georges Seurat, who was at once the disciple of the 
painter of the Massacres of Scio and of Delacroix's rival, Ingres. Surely Georges 
Seurat was great, for he was able to realize unhesitatingly whatever his eye and 
his intelligence dictated to his brush; the very least of his sketches bears the 
stamp of an incomparable artistic personality; the unsuspected aspect of beings 
and of things which he perceived and projected on his canvases is today part of 
our aesthetic patrimony. 

It was the personal element in Seurat's conception rather than his purely 
technical discoveries which enabled him to make a decisive contribution to the 
renewal of the impressionist movement. But Seurat was not the only painter 
who wanted to give a new impettis to the movement initiated by Manet and his 
friends, Seurat's elders by a generation. Vincent van Gogh and Henri de Toti- 
louse-Lautrec were then also seeking new paths. Van Gogh, with his explosive 
color and violent expressiveness, Lautrec with his keenly observant wit and 
nervous dratightsmanship, and Seurat with his consummate art of precise har- 
monies, went beyond impressionism. Contemporary art begins with these men, 
with Cezanne who savagely cooped himself up at Aix, and with Gauguin, 
dreaming in the distant tropics. 

Seurat, van Gogh, Lautrec: three glorious names in the art of the dying nine- 
teenth century, three industrious lives broken at the height of their elan. When 
van Gogh committed suicide in 1890 he was thirty-seven years old. When in 
1891 Seurat suddenly died he was only thirty-one. Lautrec burnt himself out 
in 1901 at the age of thirty-seven. Despite their youth all three achieved what 
Cezanne called realization, giving their full measure at an age when others are 
still seeking. As if recognizing that they had only a few years in which to ex- 



press themselves, they passed by the halting places without stopping, reached 
matm-ity speedily and left us the fully achieved A\ork Avhich bears the ringing 
message of their genitis. 

One is justified in calling phenomenal this triple apparition, so brief and 
so brilliant. BtU it woidd be unprofitable to pursue these painters into the fu- 
tme -^vhich was denied them. Useless to imagine ^\hat they might have done, 
since, prodigal of their talents, they fully spent their resources. What matters 
is that their canxases are xvith us and do not lack a single brush stroke. What- 
e\er their imrealized projects, Seurat, van Gogh and Laturec appear before 
posterity xvith their -^vork achieved. 

If Laturec regarded his contemporaries xvith a pitiless and ironical eye, if 
van Gogh consumed himself in fiery solitudes, Seurat, basing himself on scien- 
tific research and admirably conscious of his role, hurled himself ardently into 
the fray. Not bellicose, he feared neither the opinions nor the ridicide of the 
ptiblic. Thus he Avas less isolated than either Lautrec or van Gogh and soon 
attached to himself companions xvho, recognizing him as their teacher and 
leader, adopted his methods and formed with him the )ieu-impres.sio)ii.st group. 
Surrounded by young artists and encouraged by the support of the venerated 
Camille Pissarro, he -^vas able to direct the struggle for a new outlook expressed 
by a new method. But when he died suddenly there Avas no one to replace him, 
for if his disciples shared his vision and technique his genius belonged to him 
alone. 

After his death there were those A\ho did not fail to say that he had not lived 
long enough to develop fidly his aesthetic discovery, his new formula for 
beauty, that he had left "to men a stammering revelation which dazzled with- 
out enlightening them." He has even been saddled Avith the responsibility for 
the "pernicious confusion of art and science, the most dangerous error in the 
history of art." It woidd be idle to discuss these qtiestions today Avhen the work 
of Seurat is tuiderstood and its fectmdity proved. In the artist's lifetime his 
friends Felix Feneon and the Belgian poet, Emile Verhaeren. tried lo point out 
thai liis scientific approach was not necessarily contradictory to the ends of art, 
since the most perfect knowledge of the laws of optics does not make one an 
artist. Those who believed they had found an infallible recipe for art in the 
discoveries of Seurat simply forgot that no technique or theory is valid unless 
applied by a man of genius, and that no method, however subtle, can put a stop 
to mediocrity. 



No attempt will be made here to analyze the views of Seurat. To under- 
stand his work and the movement he created, it is less important to search out 
the validity or invalidity of his ideas than to know the ideas themselves. This 
study is limited to an account of Seurat's life, of the process by which his ideas 
— and paralleling them, his works — developed and of the reception accorded 
them. It proposes to include whatever was said or written about Seurat in his 
lifetime, citing as often as possible the somxes themselves. In this way an at- 
tempt is made to reconstitute the intellectual atmosphere in ^vhich Seurat 
worked. It is for others to sttidy Seurat's place in the history of art or to analyze 
his paintings. The purpose of this study has been to present the main facts, to 
assemble scrupulotisly the significant evidence and to retrieve essential docu- 
ments while such researches are still possible. 

I would not have been able to realize these aims without the tuitiring ef- 
forts of Felix Feneon, the only man who can speak with authority about Geor- 
ges Seurat. Withdrawn, silent for long years, this man has complete knowledge 
of the life and work of his great friend. He agreed to verify this study, and his 
prodigious memory stipplied many hitherto unknown details. He permitted 
me to consult his collection of the reviews which appeared on the occasion of 
the early exhibitions of Seurat's paintings. Without his friendly collaboration 
this study could not have been undertaken. 

Paul Signac and Maximilien Luce — both now dead — who with Felix 
Feneon were asked by Seurat's family to distribute his works among his heirs, 
were eager to tell me their recollections. Another friend of Setirat, Lucien 
Pissarro, entrusted me with his father's letters to him. These letters — soon to 
be published — made it possible for me to clarify variotxs important points. 

I am indebted to Cesar M. de Haucke, who in collaboration with Felix Fe- 
neon is preparing the catalogue of Seurat's work and who permitted me to con- 
sult the files of his unpublished collection of photographs. 

Begun in Paris in 1938, this book was completed in 1942 in New York. 
Meyer Schapiro made a number of suggestions for the bibliography and sent 
me David Sutter's articles, the importance of which he proposes to demonstrate 
himself in a study now in preparation. 

In spite of material diffictilties of every kind, notably the impossibility of 
obtaining the photographs already collected in France, I have been able, 
thanks to the collaboration of George Wittenborn and Heinz Schultz, to re- 
produce here what amounts to an important and representative section of 



Seurat's work. I was also greatly aided by the Museum of Modern Art in New 
York, the College Art Association of America, the Art Foimdation, Inc., which 
put their plates at my disposal, by the KroUer-M tiller Foundation and the 
Courtauld Institute of Art, as well as by many persons who lent me photo- 
graphs. I am grateful to the collectors who permitted me to reproduce the 
works in their possession. 

New York, December 1942 



THE BEGINNING 



Georges Seurat was born on December 2, 1859, in the rue de Bondy, Paris. 
His father was a bailiff in La Villette. The limitations of the pious, somewhat 
bigoted, petty bourgeois family in which he was brought up, if not wholly fa- 
vorable to his artistic development, do not on the other hand seem to have se- 
riously interfered with it. Pursuing the customary studies until he was seven- 
teen, Seurat at the same time worked in a municipal school of design, near the 
church of Saint-Vincent-de-Patil. Here the main emphasis was laid on copying 
the dusty plaster casts of antique sculpture which cluttered up the studios of 
the period. The school was rtm by a sculptor, Justin Lequin, a winner of sec- 
ond honors in the Grand Prix de Rome, who — as one of Seurat's colleagues 
said — taught his pupils the art of screwing up the nose or the ears after litho- 
graphic models.^ It was at this school that Seurat, a serious, disciplined and 
somewhat reserved young man, made the acquaintance of Aman-Jean. They 
soon became fast friends, entered the Ecole des Beaux-Arts together and stud- 
ied for four years under Henri Lehmann, a pupil of Ingres. 

The alert intelligence of the two young men soon rebelled against the nar- 
rowness of the official studios where a degenerate classicism was painfully 
elaborated by narrow-minded professors who at best were merely competent. 
So Seurat, his taste for the difficult sharpened by what he had learned, began to 
seek other pastures for his natural curiosity and was able to resist the academic 
conceptions which are so often fatal to youthful aspirations. Encouraging his 
friend to read the books he liked himself — the Goncourt brothers were his 
gods just then — he engaged him in endless artistic and literary discussions." 
For a long time he was completely devoted to Ingres, whose ideas were trans- 
mitted to him, considerably coarsened in the process, by the teacher, Henri 
Lehmann. The influence of Seurat's enthusiasm for Ingres can be seen in his 
studies from models, most particularly in certain copies from the master, and 
in compositions which also show the influence of Puvis de Chavannes. 

The sketches dating from 1874, mostly copies — copies of illustrations, of a 
statue of Vercingetorix, of works by Alphonse de Neuville — are competent 
though not spirited. But the young Seurat soon moved towards choicer models 



^ 



V 





1. G. Seurat: Studies from Plaster Casts, 
about 1874. 



2. G. Seurat: Study of a Leg, about 1875. 



and a freer style. He began to make copies of Holbein's drawings, of, for ex- 
ample, the Portrait of Sir Richard Soutlnvell; he made a sketch of Poussin's 
hand, based on the celebrated Self-Portrait in the Louvre, a copy in oils of 
Ingres' Andromeda on the Rock, line drawings of the figiue of The Source, 
and also of figures from draAvings by Raphael. WHiile these drawings Avere exe- 
cuted with the aim of achieving mastery of line, Seurat was deeply interested in 
the theory of complementary colors, which irresistibly led him towards Dela- 
croix. 

A good student, dutiful, orderly, but not ])articidarly brilliant,^ Seurat 
went regidarly to the musetnns and spent much of his time in the libraries, 
where he studied engravings and photographs Avhen he Avas not poring over 
such Avorks as Chevreul's treatise On the Principles of Harmony and Contrast 
of Colors, or the Grammar of Painting and Engravi)ig by Charles Blanc. For a 
long time he turned over in his mind certain passages of these works, for ex- 
ample, the following observation of Charles Blanc: 



When the Orientals, who are excellent colorisls, have to tint a sinface which is smooth 
in appearance, they make the color vibrate by putting tone upon tone.' 



#¦ 






.#^ ^ 





3. G. Seurat: Sir Richard Southwell after Holbein, 
1877. 



4. G. Seurat: Detail of Poussin's Self-Portrait, 
about 1877. 



In November 1879, while still absorbed in these studies, Seurat left the 
studio in the rue de I'Arbalete, ^vhich he shared with his friend Aman-Jean, to 
serve his term at Brest in a regiment of the line. For a year he lived facing the 
sea and soon came to feel a secret intimacy with the spacious horizons and vast 
reaches of water. Whenever he could find time free from military routine he 
filled his notebooks with impromptu sketches, sometimes with colored pencil, 
catching the pose of a comrade, noting the movements of a passer-by, studying 
this gesture, that detail.' Returning in November 1880, he ^vent to lodge at 
19, rue de Chabrol. 

Seurat then began to draw intensively, concentrating on the adjustment of 
lights and shadows, which so often blur details. He invented outlines which, 
while wholly new, enclosed familiar forms, purifying them of any accidental 
quality, and achieving an unsuspected expressiveness whose poetry he knew 
how to release. Renouncing the line as a means of precision, he composed in 
masses. On the uneven texture of his drawing paper his pencil blocked in 
masses of shadow, letting clear forms emerge in the white spaces between. By 
means of contrasts and shadings whose value Av^as perfectly calculated, he 





5- G. Seurat: Copy from Ingres' "Andromeda on the 
Rock," about 1878. 



6. G. Seurat: Copy from Ingres' "Source,' 
about 1878. 



presented unforeseen perspectives. Subduing lights and colors, he brought 
them to life again in velvety blacks, in elusive whites, thus creating a new world 
in which shadows facilitated plastic bodies, transparencies were full of mystery 
and the greys which moved between black and white revealed an intense life. 
Harmonic lines swayed and balanced, forms swelled or became precise and 
lights took on fullness under the dense weaving of his pencil strokes. 

Seurat devoted the years 1882 and 1883 almost exclusively to drawings. The 
first one he exhibited, a portrait of his friend Aman-Jean, was accepted by the 
Salon of 1883, while the rest of his entries were refused. It won for him a fa- 
vorable comment by the critic, Roger Marx, who sa^v in the portrait "an ex- 
cellent study in chiaroscuro, a drawing of merit, which cannot be the A\ork of 
a nonentity."® 

While continuing to draw, Seurat now began to study the art of Eugene 
Delacroix. He made frecjuent pilgrimages to the chapel of Saints-Anges in the 
church of Saint-Sulpice and quickly became conversant with the master's tech- 
nique. It did not take him long to arrive at conclusions which had already been 
formulated by Baudelaire: 




7- G. Seurat: The Sleeping Shepherd, about 1878. 



The larger the painting, the larger should be the brush strokes, but it is well not to 
mix them materially; the strokes blend naturally at the distance desired by the sym- 
pathetic law which associated them. The color thus obtains more energy and freshness. 

And he began to see other relations which had been envisaged by Baude- 
laire: 

Yellow, orange, red, represent and inspire ideas of joy, riches, glory and love; but 
there are thousands of yellow or red atmospheres, and all the other colors will be af- 
fected to a degree logically determined by the dominant atmosphere. The art of the 
colorist is evidently in some respects related to mathematics and music." 

Seurat had already foinid in the Grammar of Painting and Engraving an 
allusion to the relation of music to color, and this allusion struck him all the 
more forcibly since his methodical mind saw in it new possibilities. 

Charles Blanc had written in his Grammar: 

Color, which is controlled by fixed laws, can be taught like music. . . . It is because 
he knew these laws, and studied them profoundly, after having intuitively divined 
them, that Eugene Delacroix became one of the greatest colorists of modern times. 

Charles Blanc also insisted on the effects of optical mixture, effects observed 







¦\%\ 



P^ ¦ Nx. 



I. 




V \-=^r.r ^ 



8. G. Seurat: Stiulies of Women, i88o. 



in Delacroix's paintings by Baudelaire. Analyzing a nude in a ceiling decora- 
don, Charles Blanc noted: 

. . . the boldness with which Delacroix slashed this figure with a decided green, so 
that, partly neutralized by its complement red, it forms with the red in which it is ab- 
sorbed a mixed and fresh tone apparent only at a distance, in a word, a resultant color 
which is called an optical mixture.* 

Seurat ^vas too much in lo\'e with scientific research not to ^\ant to generalize 
the laws of harmony and color in precise formulas applicable to the ^'isual arts 
and comparable to theories of music. The theory of complementary and con- 
trasting colors led him to the study of those "mathematical" aspects of painting 
of which Baudelaire had spoken so prophetically. And now he found the con- 
firmation of these theories in the works of Delacroix. He observed in Les 
Femmes d' Alger orange-reds oj^posed to blue-greens or greens and yellows 
which, optically inixed, produced the precise tone of silk. He made a notation, 
for instance, dated February 23. 1881, of the fact thai in Lcs Conxmlsionnaires 
de Tanger "the flag is green with a red spot in ihc center; above, the blue of 
the sky, the orange-tinted white of the walls, and ihc orange-giey of the 
clouds."* 




<^ 



9. G. Seurat: Studies of Hands, 1^ 





-^¦ 


;/ 


,¦ / 


/ 


L 


/ 











:^0 

'V.. 



--4. // 



With these observations held firmly in mind, Seurat also examined the 
works of other masters in the Louvre, and it was thus that he discovered the di- 
vision of tones in Murillo and Veronese." Chevretil's law of the simultaneous 
contrast of colors provided the scientific basis for Seurat's researches. Accord- 
ing to this law 

under the sirmdtaueoiis contrast of colors are included all the modifications which dif- 
ferently colored objects appear to undergo in their physical composition, and in the 
height of tone of their respective colors, when seen simultaneously. ^^ 



Chevreul had explained that, if one looks at two objects at once and re- 
gards them attentively, each one of thein will appear to have not its own color, 
that is to say, what it would seem to have if it ¦were seen in isolation, but the 
shade arising from the complementary color of the other colored object. The 
fact is that in juxtaposition they will appear to be other than they "really" are. 

The impressionists, by representing objects together with the air that cir- 
culates around them, dissolving them in an atmosphere of light, had already 
dealt a mortal blo^v to the old conception of so-called "local color." Against 
Chevreul's conception they wotild have argued that it is impossible to define 



the "real" color of an object, since it is everywhere exposed to the influence 
of all that surrounds it. However, in introducing into their paintings the ef- 
fects produced on each object by others near it and by the enveloping light, the 
impressionists had merely been faithful to insights based on instinct and ob- 
servation, insights which they had not even tried to raise to the level of an exact 
science. But Seurat, for his part, wanted to attempt the reconciliation of art and 
science; he did not hide his intention of "starting afresh everything they had 
done,"^- even as Cezanne had wished to "remake Poussin after nature." From 
1882 on, says Paul Signac, Setirat based himself on the laws of contrast in his 
tise of color and painted each element separately in soft tones. If few paintings 
made before this period still exist, it is because Seiuat seems to have destroyed 
later on whatever did not bear the mark of his first efforts to^\ards a personal 
art. For the same reason he never showed canvases painted before La Baignade, 
done in 1883-84. 

In 1882 Seurat had begun to compose either ^vith separate touches of the 
brush which fuse only at a certain distance, as in A Forest Interior, done in 
dots of a single color, or by using the large sweeping strokes that recur in the 
many canvases of Reapers, Stone Breakers, etc. These last paintings, extraordi- 
narily luminous, express the subject by means of great masses of light and 
shadow. The brush strokes strewn in vital profusion in every direction create 
an atmosphere that seems to vibrate. The critic who remarked in 1884 that 
Seurat applied "without awkwardness, and even with mtich accuracy, the 
method of multi-colored strokes dear to Camille Pissarro,"'^ forgot to add that 
the brush strokes of the impressionist master ^vere determined by the forms 
and facilitated variegation of color, while Setirat used the method at that time 
in order to give life to dimly indicated planes and to create contrasts without 
precise contours. However, there are other canvases in which his style is less 
lively, his color more austere, and in which the drawing appears to be more de- 
liberate, as in certain Suburban Landscapes.^* In these paintings the artist 
seems to take pleasure in representing in an almost dry manner the rectilinear 
walls of isolated houses, the monotony of deserted fields, the ridiculous fragility 
of factory chimneys. Withotit any sentimentality he records — one might al- 
most say, he accentuates — the sadness of those places in which the town and 
the country meet in boredom. But the balanced character of his composition, 
the harmony of light and shade and the softness of Seurat's color, combine to 
"ennoble" the site and give an almost moninncntal image. 




10. G. Seurat: Detail from a Paintinsr executed in 1882, original size. 



As Seurat derived from Delacroix technical conceptions which enabled him 
to formulate a point of departiue for his OAvn efforts, so too he found in the 
great romantic notions ^vhich justified his o^vn inner tendencies, as -when Dela- 
croix said: 

Nature is just a dictionary, you hunt in it for words . . . you find in it the elements 
which make a phrase or a story; but nobody would regard a dictionary as a composi- 
tion in the poetic sense of the term. Besides, nature is far from being always interest- 
ing from the point of view of the effect of the whole ... If each detail is perfect in 
some way, the union of these details seldom gi\es an effect equivalent to that which 
arises, in the work of a great artist, from the total composition.'-' 

This principle, profoundly opposed to what the impressionist painters were 
trying to achieve — they were concerned to catch the fugitive aspects of their 
subject and to reveal faithfully "nature as seen throtigh their temperaments" — 
this principle, which on the contrary beheld in nattire a means rather than an 
end, found a willing adherent in Setirat. If henceforward he carefully prepared 
every detail of his pictures by means of drawings and sketches from nature, he 
was nevertheless intent on stibordinating his direct observations to the general 
composition, each line and mass of which had to correspond to clearly deter- 
mined purposes. A sensibility contintially on the alert ^vas allied in Seurat with 
a lucid intelligence enamored of clear and fruitfid formtilas. His reason came 
into play naturally, effortlessly, as soon as his painter's instinct had paid its re- 
spects to nature; spiritual authentication tmfailingly follo^\¦ed the perception 
of material fact. 

Nothing better illustrates Seurat's attitude tOAvards natme. and the position 
he had derived from his direct studies of it, than the ^\ay in ^\•hich he set to 
work, in 1883, ^^^ l^i^ ^i^'^t great painting. La Baignade, a composition alive 
with the furious heat of a summer dav and all the ^vcll-beine and lassittide 
which the stm generates. It ^\-as at Asnieres, just outside Paris, that the artist 
first made a ntnnber of ^\'hat he called croquctons, sketches from nature 
brushed very rapidly on the little wooden panels in his painter's box. He chose 
the site and familiarized himself ^vith the landscape; then he set hinnan beings 
in it, apparently random figtires, btit acttially in accord ^s'ith the subject which 
his many visits to the place had stiggested to him. Thtis he assembled all the 
data for a great canvas. The little panels Avhich he blocked in with stich qtiick 
and brilliant strokes provided the elements he needed for his composition; he 
had only to eliminate what was secondary, to suppress what ^vas superfluous 

10 




11. G. Seurat: Portrait of the Painter Anian-Jean, 1882. 



11 



and to subtilize his treatment of the details after he had deeply reflected on 
them. A rough sketch of some horses in the Seine shows in the distance a sail- 
boat which reappears in the final picture; another sketch, a view of a grassy 
slope, presents the abandoned clothes which later appeared beside a bather; a 
little panel of persons grouped on the grass reveals the man stretched out on the 
ground and the bather with dangling legs; another gives us a first view of the 
boy in the straw hat sitting on the river bank. Then there are the drawings in 
which Seurat dealt fully with the still life of clothes, the back of the child whose 
shoulders alone emerge from the water and the postme of the boy hallooing. 
Some of these drawings were done in his studio from a living model. 

Cunningly regulating the play of horizontals and verticals, Seurat carefidly 
composed his picture, here painting the grass with large brush strokes, else- 
where having recourse to little separate points to obtain the desired effect. 
Then he presented his work to the Salon of 1884. The jury demonstrated once 
again its total lack of understanding, and even more se\'ere that year than 
usually, rejected Seurat's canvas, along ^vith numerous other entries. 




12. G. SiiiRAi: Siill Lite of Clothes, Study for "line liaignade," 1883-84. 



12 



SALON DES INDEPENDANTS 



In a period in which private exhibitions by art dealers were almost unknown, 
the Salotis controlled the only opportunity artists had to show their work. 
Hence to be rejected by the jury meant to be condemned to silence for at least 
a year, until the next Salon. The painters thus deprived of the single means of 
bringing their work before the ptiblic came together in the spring of 1884 to 
organize an exhibition of independent artists. It was clearly stipulated that "in 
principle, works of all members w^ould be accepted," and that each artist wotild 
be able to exhibit two paintings. As soon as the Salon was authorized, a few 
modest posters annotmced from the walls of Montmartre and Montparnasse: 

SALON DES ARTISTES INDEPENDANTS, 1884 

autorise par le ministre des Beaux-Arts de la Ville de Paris 

Baraquement B, Cour des Tuileries 

du 15 mai au ler juillet^" 

Four hundred and two artists participated in this exhibition, held in a con- 
struction which had been set up as the temporary quarters of a Post Office. 
Most of the exhibitors had been rejected by the Salon, but there were among 
them painters who had not wanted to appear before its jury. Among the ex- 
hibitors — unknown to one another — were Odilon Redon with drawings and 
lithographs, Dtibois-Pillet with the canvas Dead Child, Charles Angrand with 
landscapes, Henri-Edmond Cross with Corner of a Garden in Monaco, painted 
in low key, Paul Signac with Pont d'Austerlitz and a view of the Rue Caulairi- 
court, done in the impressionist manner, and Georges Seurat "^vith Uy\e Bai- 
gnade}'' Setirat's large canvas was htmg in the canteen; evidently it was not 
judged worthy of more prominent display. It was here that the painter first 
came face to face Avith the ptiblic and the critics. The exhibition was opened on 
May 15, without the presence of Jules Grevy, President of the Republic, who 
had announced that he would come. 

13 



The truth is that the exhibition did not awake much public interest. Some 
newspapers did not even mention the event, others were content to ridicule 
the show, remarking: "Here they are, all of them, row after row, the rejected, 
the misunderstood, the fearful, the incoherent, the anaemic, the unasked-for, 
fops and farceurs of painting," and citing the Baigneurs of Monsieur Sieurat 
[sic] among other "curiosities."^* Jules Claretie, on the other hand, was quite 
disappointed and confessed in Le Temps that he had "anticipated more eccen- 
tricities, more oddities, more bizarre imaginations."'*' Paul Alexis, a friend of 
Zola and Cezanne, and who imder the pseudonym Trublot regidarly contrib- 
uted lively reviews written in slang to the Cri dii Peuple, was extremely inter- 
ested in painting, although very near-sighted. In his commentary he listed the 
three paintings which seemed to him most grotesque, and the third of these was: 

Une Baignade (Asnieres) by Monsieur Georges Seurat, Boulevaid de Magenta. This 
one is a fake Puvis de Chavannes. What ridiculous bathers, men and girls [sic]! But 
painted with such earnestness that it is almost moving, and I am no longer tempted 
to rib it.-" 

However, there were critics who were not at all inclined to "rib" the show. 
Edmond Jacques spoke in LTntrayisigeay^t of "Monsieur Seurat. who veils be- 
hind prismatic eccentricities the most excellent draughtsmanship, and en- 
velopes his bathers, waves and horizons in warm tones."-' And Roger Marx 
said of Seurat in Le Voltaire: "I was pleased to discover in his impressionist 
painting indications of important qualities, the mark of a temperament."" If 
not a great triumph, this first test won for Seurat some sympathetic interest and 
a new friend. The new friend was Paul Signac. 

Signac had been struck by Seurat's large canvas despite its unfavorable 
hanging. He observed that it was painted 

in great flat strokes, brushed one over the other, fed by a palette composed, like De- 
lacroix's, of pure and earthy colors. By means of these ochres and browns the picture 
is deadened, and appears less brilliant than those the impressionists paint with a pal- 
ette limited to prismatic colors. But the understanding of the laws of contrast, the 
methodical separation of elements — light, shade, local color, and the interaction of 
colors — and their proper balance and proportion, give this canvas its perfect har- 
mony. ^^ 

Roger Marx must have dubbed Seurat's entry an "impressionist painting" 
in order to characterize its free workmanship and clear tones, for Seurat's 
palette was utterly unlike that of the impressionists, as Signac had grasped at 

14 




13- G. Seurat: Study of a Leg for "Une Baignade," 1883-84. 



once. He himself had exhibited paintings in this very show which revealed pre- 
occupations analogous to those of Seurat. But while the latter, in his search for 
a method, had turned first to Ingres and then to Delacroix, ignoring the im- 
pressionists, Signac had chosen Claude Monet and Armand Guillaumin for his 
masters. In 1880 an exhibition of the works of Claude Monet had, as Signac 
was to say later, "decided his career," and after his first efforts as an impression- 
ist Signac had ventured to appeal to Monet, writing him: 

Frankly, this is my position: I have been painting for two years, and my only models 
have been your own works; I have been following the wonderful path you broke for 
us. I have always worked regularly and conscientiously, but without advice or help, 
for I do not know any impressionist painter who would be able to guide me, living as 
I am in an environment more or less hostile to what I am doing. And so I fear I may 
lose my way, and I beg you to let me see you, if only for a short visit. I should be 
happy to show you five or six studies; perhaps you would tell me what you think of 
them and give me the advice I need so badly, for the fact is that I have the most hor- 
rible doubts, having always worked by myself, without teacher, encouragement, or 
criticism.^* 

Whatever advice Monet gave Signac could not have been very definite or 
precise, for it was Monet's custom to say to those who came to consult him: 

15 



I advise you to paint the best way you can, as much as you can, without being afraid 
to paint bad pictures ... if your painting does not improve of itself . . . then there 
is nothing to be done ... I can't do anything about it.-^ 

Having adopted the impressionists' scale of pure colors based on the spec- 
trum and the little comma-like brush strokes, Paul Signac, still eager to im- 
pro\e his painting, was struck by the methodical working-out of the laws of 
contrast in the pictures of Seurat. On the other hand, he felt that the latter to 
develop further would have to abandon the palette of Delacroix for prismatic 
colors. The related character of their separate approaches soon made the two 
painters close friends. 

Four years younger than Seurat, Signac was exuberant and audacious. He 
liked conflict and discussions, and he sought the society of other painters to ex- 
change views, able, by his candor and talent, to win their sympathy. Desiring 
like Seurat to base his experiments on the concepts of science, he went to see 
Chevreul at Les Gobelins in 1 884 to learn the science of color from the theorist 
himself. Chevreul told him that thirty-four years before then Delacroix had 
written him, expressing a desire to discuss the science of color and to question 
him about certain problems which continued to vex him. They had agreed on 
a rendezvous, but his constant sore throat had forced Delacroix to remain in- 
doors and he had not kept the appointment.^^ 

While Delacroix had not arranged his palette scientifically. Signac A\'as able 
to derive from his example the following principles for colorists: 

Delacroix has proved the advantages of an informed techni(]uc: he has shown that 
logic and method, far from limiting the passion of the painter, strengthen it. 

He revealed the secret laws which govern color: the accord of like colors, the 
analogies between contrasting colors. 

He showed how inferior a dull and uniform coloration is to the shades produced 
by the vibrations of various elements when they are combined. 

He indicated the potentialities of optical mixture which makes possible the crea- 
tion of new tints. 

He advised colorists to use as little as possible colors dark, dim or dirty. 

He taught that one can modify and tone down a shade without tlinying it by mix- 
ing on the palette. 

He pointed out the moral influence which color adds to the eflect of the picture: 
he explained the aesthetic language of tints and tones. 

He incited painters to dare everything and not to fear that a harmony can be too 
brightly colored.'-^ 

In order to follow these precepts freely one had to abandon all hope of be- 
ing admitted to the official Salon. It was necessary to lay the basis for repeating 

16 




14. G. Seurat: Torso of a Bather, Study for "Une Baignade," 1883. 



regularly the Salon des Independnnts. This could not be easily done for as a 
friend of Seurat remarked: 

It happened that the committee was composed of jolly good fellows, escaped from 
some vaudeville show, who maddened the police commissioner by demanding one an- 
other's arrest, and caning each other in the streets. In a few days they disposed of all 
the funds. On June gth, 1884, a general meeting of all members which was presided 
over by Redon, convinced that no orderly account coidd be expected from the com- 
mittee, voted to remove them, and agreed to foimd the Societe des Artistes Inde- 
pendants (headquarters: 19, Quai Saint-Michel, Paris), which second organization was 
duly constituted on the 11th before a notary. This society, said the preamble, stands 
for the suppression of juries and proposes to help artists freely present their work be- 
fore the bar of public opinion. -^ 

During the many stormy meetings which took place before the constitution 
of the newly created society was drawn up, Signac met Seurat and aligned him- 

17 



self with him as well as ^\•ith Charles Angrand, and Albert Dubois-Pillet who 
formulated the by-laws of the society. All of these men, together ^vith Henri- 
Edmond Cross, took a very active part in the formation of the Society of Inde- 
pendent Artists and became, in fact, members of the committee. Linked by 
mutual aesthetic aims, they came together regidarly on Mondays at Signac's 
studio, met on evenings at the Cafe d'Orient, rue de Clichy, and participated 
in the meetings of the Independent Artists ^vho fa\ored the Cafe Marengo, 
near the Lou\re. Seurat seldom failed to go to these gatherings ^vhich he sat 
through, smoking, mostly silent, always attentive. His chosen friends were 
Angrand and Signac who familiarized him with the work of the impressionists. 
Inspired by their mutual studies, Seurat adopted the simplified palette of the 
impressionists, while Signac saw new possibilities in the methodically balanced 
separation of elements followed by Setirat. The latter was then dreaming of a 
large composition Avhich would represent his new palette and technique and he 
began to make careful studies of the landscape and crowds in the public park 
on the island of La Grande Jatte, not far from the bank of Asnieres where he 
had made his first sketches for La Baigiiade. 

In December 1884 the ne^\' Society of Independent Artists organized its first 
exhibition in the "Pavilion de la Ville de Paris," on the Champs-Elysees. As it 
was late in the season, a \ery imfavorable time, fe^v people came to see the ex- 
hibition where Seurat once more showed his Baignade, as well as nine sketches 
and a landscape of the island of La Grande Jatte, a first study for his great new 
picture. His work A\'as again noticed by the critic Roger Marx, who wrote in his 
review of the show: 

Among these independent artists there is one, Monsieur Seurat. who must be singled 
out. At the time of the Salon of 1882 I praised an excellent portrait of his, done in 
charcoal, which I was happy to see again. It is accompanied by a series of sketches and 
a landscape of striking aerial transparency, over which the lively light of a hot sum- 
mer sun plays freely; all this is done in a sincere and candid style and reveals a depth 
of conviction which one regiets not to find among certain "converts to impression- 
ism. "-» 



18 



A SUNDAY AFTERNOON ON THE ISLAND 
OF LA GRANDE JATTE 



In 1885, while Seurat was painting in Grandcamp, from which he brought 
back a number of seascapes done in low tones, full of calm and lyricism, Signac, 
who was working on the bank of the Seine, made the acquaintance of Armand 
Guillaumin. They often set up their easels side by side. It -^vas in Guillaumin's 
studio that Signac, much moved, met Camille Pissarro. He interested the im- 
pressionist master in his ideas and introduced him to Seurat. The two friends 
explained to Pissarro why they had resolved not to mix their colors on the pal- 
ette but had chosen to employ tiny brush strokes of pure colors, permitting the 
mixture to be accomplished optically. They also told him of their methodical 
observance of the laws of contrasting and complementary colors. Convinced 
that their technique would make possible a more rigorous control of his sensa- 
tions and feeling that it constituted a new stage of impressionism, of which he 
had been one of the initiators, Camille Pissarro, pupil of Corot, friend of Ce- 
zanne, Monet and Renoir, unhesitatingly accepted the audacious "divisionism" 
of Seurat and Signac. Pissarro's oldest son, Lucien, born like Signac in 1863, 
was also won over, as was his friend and fellow student, Louis Hayet. 

In a letter to his dealer, Paul Durand-Ruel, Pissarro summed up the new 
theory which was to determine his practice froin then on, stating that what he 
wanted was 

to seek a modern synthesis by methods based on science, that is based on the theory 
of colors developed by Monsieur Chevreul, on the experiments of Maxwell and the 
measurements of N. O. Rood; to substitute optical mixture for the mixture of pig- 
ments, which means to seek to decompose tones into their constituent elements; for 
this type of optical mixture stirs up luminosities more intense than those created by 
mixed pigments.^" 

Now that the system had been set forth, it remained to produce paintings 
which by their aesthetic valtie would show better than any argument advanced 

19 




15- I'eojjle Sitting on a Riverbank near I'aiis, Irom an old phototjiaph. 



in words the degree to which science could fiu'ther the art of painting. Seiuat, 
Signac and Pissarro set to ^vork. Seurat began the large composition -which he 
had already meditated on for a long time and which, coming after La Bai- 
gyiade, was to represent his completely worked-out technique. The artist made 
ready for this painting, A Sunday Ajternoon on the Island of La Grande 
Jatte, by doing a great number of drawings and sketches in oils, many more in 
fact than he had done in preparation for La Baignade. But while La Baignade 
presented six principal figures in fixed attitudes, the ne^v painting, which was 
no less than six and one half by ten feet in size, assembled some forty persons, 
seated or standing, clearly outlined in the full heat of the sun or enveloped by 
shade, as well as a number of animals and the river itself with its canoes and 
sailboats. This work occupied Seurat for almost two years, from the time when 
he completed the landscape of La Grande Jatte, already exhibited in Decem- 
ber 1884, until the spring of 1886. During this time he not only painted the 
large canvas itself, but before he had finished it completed some twenty draw- 
ings on the spot or from models in his studio and also thirty odd paintings, for 
the most part rather small and rapidly executed. The exceptions are several 



20 




i6. G. Seurat: Study for "La Grande Jatte," Croqueton, about 1884. 

large and fairly complete studies which were doubtless done in the studio. An 
enterprise of such scope is not only very rare in modern art, but was unique in 
its period, dominated as the time was by the impressionist vision which asked 
of the artist a spontaneous expression of his sensations. While Monet, for ex- 
ample, taxed his ingenuity to set down the most fugitive effects in a few hours, 
Seurat, a beginner of twenty-five, conceived and realized a project of an im- 
portance almost unknown since the days of David and Ingres. 

In attacking this immense project Seurat followed the procedure later otit- 
lined by Signac: 

It seems that the first consideration of a painter who stands before the white canvas 
should be to decide what curves and arabesques should cut the surface, what tints and 
tones should cover it . . . Following the precepts of Delacroix he wotdd not begin a 
composition until he had first determined its organization. Guided by tradition and 
by science, he would adjust the composition to his conception, that is to say he would 
adapt the lines (directions and angles), the chiaroscuro (tones), the colors (tints), to the 
traits he wished to make dominant.^^ 

From his studies for the large canvas it would appear that Seurat started 
with the site itself. He had already painted the landscape, in 1884, and had also 



21 




17- G. Sf.urat: Dog, Study for "La Grande Jalte," al)out 1885. 

made one important drawing of it. In animating the landscape with human 
beings and animals, he was no doubt inspired by those he had actually ob- 
served, but he subjected his impressions of them to the rigorous requirements 
of his composition.^- He therefore — his procedure unaltered in this respect 
since painting La Baigrmde — preserved in more or less developed studies per- 
sons seen by chance in those typical costumes and postures which can also be 
observed in photographs of those days. When necessary, he had models pose in 
the studio until he had finally determined the attitudes he wanted. Organized 
on vertical and horizontal planes, his composition of often repeated perpen- 
diculars was enlivened with parasols, bustles, sails and so on. All these lines, 
these limits of planes, are at the same time the apexes of angles in which light 
and shade confront each other. The problem was not simply to achie\e a cer- 
tain rhythm of lines, but above all to harmonize the human figures with the 
landscape. It was a problem which could only be solved by color. In the deter- 
mination of what colors to select and what roles to assign them Seurat now 
brought to bear all he had learned from his studies, meditations and experi- 
ments. 

As Seurat's "divisionism" does not demand a technique of tiny points of 



22 




18. G. Seurat: Monkey, Study for "La Grande Jatte," 1884. 



colors, his croquetons, done from nature in a few quick brush strokes, are not 
at all executed in the so-called pointillist manner; despite the speed with which 
they were done, the touch is ptire, the elements are balanced and the laws of 
contrast are observed/^ Signac relates: 

Confronting his subject, Seurat, before touching his little panel with paint, scruti- 
nizes, compares, looks with half shut eyes at the play of light and shadow, observes 
contrasts, isolates reflections, plays for a long time with the cover of the box which 
serves as his palette; then, fighting against matter as against nature, he slices from his 
little heap of colors arranged in the order of the spectrum the various colored ele- 
ments which form the tint destined best to convey the mystery he has glimpsed. Exe- 
cution follows on observation, stroke by stroke the panel is covered . . .^* 

The tints which Setirat used exclusively are those of the disc on which 
Chevreul brought together all the colors of the rainbow^ The fundamental 
colors, blue, red, yellow and green, according to Chevreul, can be related to 
one another by a host of intermediate tints in a circular system. Thus: blue, 
blue-violet, violet, violet-red, red, red-orange, orange, orange-yellow, yellow, 
yellow-green, green, green-blue and bltie again. Besides these, Seurat also used 
white, which mixed on the palette with these tints permitted him to get an in- 

23 



calculable number of tones, from a tint with just a trace of A\hite in it to almost 
pure white, and he did not hesitate to mix, two by two, tints next to each other 
on the color scale. Near the thumb hole of his palette he in\ariably placed sev- 
eral bars of white, each one of which was set aside for mixtures with one of the 
fundamental colors. ^^ 

With this palette Seurat achieved the large composition in his "divisionist" 
technique. "Divisionism," according to Paul Signac. means 

to assure the benefits of luminosity, color and harmony: by the optical mixture of 
uniquel) pure pigments (all the tints of the prism and all their tones); by the separa- 
tion of various elements (local color, light, and their interactions): bv the balancing of 
these elements and their proportions (according to the laws of contrast, gradation and 
irradiation); by the selection of a brush stroke commensurate with the size of the 
canvas. ^^ 

Preparing his composition in accordance ^vith this technique and these new 
principles, Seurat nevertheless strove not to depart from his direct studies of 
nature. It was his complete grasp of the subject to the last detail -which enabled 
him to state it in terms of such ordered lines and so complex a technic|ue. A 
trifling episode, related by his friend Angrand, who in 1885 and 1886 often 
went to work with Seurat on the island of La Grande Jatte, testifies to the care- 
ful precision with which he approached his subject: 

As in siunmer the grass grew high on the bank and prevented Seinat from seeing the 
boat which he had put in the very forefront — and he complained of this mischance — 
I helped him by cutting the grass; for I was almost certain that he was going to sac- 
rifice the boat. Although he was not the slave of natiue. he was respectful of it, for he 
was not imaginative. His concern centered most of all on tints, tones and their inter- 
actions.*^ 

In the end, Seurat seems to have renounced the boat. But on another oc- 
casion, ^\'hen he observed a woman walking along the bank and holding a 
monkey on a leash, he did not hesitate to incorporate in his composition the 
graceful animal with spiral tail. As usual, he first studied the movements of 
the animal in a number of drawings. In general such drawings merely accen- 
tuated the silhouettes of the forms studied, while it was on the little panels of 
wood which he called croqueloiis that Scmat recorded his obscr\ations in 
colors. 

For several months Setuat went every day to the island of La Grande Jatte. 
The author, Maurice Beaubotng, who used to moor his boat at the island, re- 
calls that in 

24 




ig. G. Seurat: Detail from "La Grande Jatte," 1884-86. Reduction scale, 1:3.5. 



25 



Coming from Paris, turning to the right, close to the spot where they go bathing on 
Sundays, on the great arm oi the river that goes by Courbevoie and Asnieres, one often 
saw Seurat painting. He told me sadly that the boys who played or bathed in the 
neighborhood, when they saw his picture, picked up stones . . .^* 

Seurat was so absorbed by his painting that he sometimes even refused to 
lunch with his best friends, fearing to weaken his concentration. Painting on 
the island in the morning, he devoted his afternoons to working on his compo- 
sition in the studio, hardly pausing to eat a roll or chocolate bar. Standing on 
his ladder, he patiently covered his canvas with those tiny midti-colored strokes 
which give it, from a distance, that intense life and luminosity which are the 
secret of his style. At his task, Seurat always concentrated on a single section 
of the canvas, having previously determined each stroke and color to be ap- 
plied. Thus he was able to paint steadily without having to step back from the 
canvas in order to judge the effect obtained, which is all the more striking 
when Ave realize that he intended his pictures to be seen only from a certain 
distance. His extreme mental concentration also enabled him to keep on work- 
ing late into the night, despite the treacherous character of artificial lighting. 
But the type of light in which he painted was unimportant, since his purpose 
was completely formulated before he took his brush and carefidly ordered pal- 
ette in hand. Nothing was left to chance, to some happily inspired brush stroke. 
Nevertheless the work seems to have completed itself naturally and is without 
any evidence of strain; it merged into its final form without flaw or uncer- 
tainty. If the figures appear to be frozen in their postures, if the contours are 
extremely simplified, it is because Seurat sinnmed up in these beings all the 
natural movements he had observed. He thus achieved such monumental forms 
that his Sunday promenaders are stripped of whatever is laughable in their 
dress or conventional in their gestures; they appear, so immobile yet so living, 
not only as symbols of a season, of a day, of a specific time of the day, as the 
title has it, but as symbols of an entire epoch. 

When his most intimate friends praised his canvas Seurat simply remarked: 
"They see poetry in what I have done. No, I apply my method and that is all 
there is to it."'''' 

Replying to Paul Adam, who admired the rigidity of the figures grouped 
in what seemed to him Pharaonic files, while Moreas saw in the painting Pana- 
thenian processions, Seurat, to show how little the subject meant to him, said: 
"I would have painted equally well in another key, the struggle of the Horatii 
and the Curiatii."^° 

26 



THE EIGHTH EXHIBITION 
OF THE IMPRESSIONISTS 



For several years the relations between the impressionists had been compro- 
mised by disagreements of every kind. Since 1877 Cezanne had not appeared in 
any of the exhibitions of the group, Sisley had not participated in the exhibi- 
tions from 1879 to 1881, Monet and Renoir, desirous, "for entirely commer- 
cial" reasons, as Renoir explains, of being shown by the official Salon, abstained 
in 1880 and 1881. Degas had then wanted to break with them, which had led 
Caillebotte to suggest to Pissarro that they break with Degas. Despite these dif- 
ficulties, they had all appeared together in 1882. In 1883 their dealer, Durand- 
Ruel, had held a series of one-man shows of the impressionists. But in 1884 and 
1885 there had been no exhibitions at all. 

At the start of 1886 Eugene Manet, brother of the painter (who had died 
three years before), and his wife, Berthe Morisot, went to Pissarro, as well as to 
Degas, Monet, Sisley, Renoir and others, to urge the preparation of an eighth 
general exhibition of the impressionist group. Pissarro, who had already intro- 
duced Gauguin to his colleagues and had previously insisted that Cezanne be 
permitted to show his paintings with them, responded by requesting that 
Signac and Seurat be invited. His request was strongly opposed, and, in the 
early part of March 1886, Pissarro wrote to his son, Lucien, who was then in 
England: 

Yesterday I had a violent run-in with Monsieur Eugene Manet on the subject of Seu- 
rat and Signac. The latter was present, as was Guillaumin. I beg you to believe me 
when I say that I rated Manet roundly. — Which is not going to please Renoir. — But 
anyhow, and this is the point, I explained to Monsieur Manet, who probably didn't 
understand anything I said, that Seurat had something new to contribute which these 
gentlemen, despite their talent, couldn't appreciate, that I was personally convinced of 
the progressiveness of his art, which would yield, at a given moment, extraordinary 
results. After all, I am not much concerned with the appreciation of artists, no matter 
whom; I do not accept the snobbish judgments of the "romantic impressionists" to 

27 



whose interest it is to combat new tendencies. I accept the challenge, that's all. But be- 
fore anything has been done they want to stack the cards, and ruin the exhibition. — 
Monsieur Manet was beside himself! I didn't calm down. 

Degas is a hundred times more loyal. — I told Degas that Seurat's painting [La 
Grande Jatte] was very interesting. "Oh, I would have discovered that for myself, 
Pissarro, if the painting were not so large!" 

Very well — if Degas sees nothing in it, so much the worse for him. It simply means 
that there is something precious that escapes him. We shall see. Monsieur Manet 
would also ha\e liked to pre\ent Seurat from showing his figure painting. I protested 
against this, telling Manet that in that case we would make no concessions, that we 
were ready, if space were lacking, to limit our paintings ourselves, but that we would 
fight against anyone who sought to impose his choice on us. 

Things will arrange themselves somehow, parbleu!*^ 

Pissarro was optimistic, but things ^vent badly. The discussions with those 
he now called "romantic impressionists," in order to distinguish them from 
"scientific impressionists," were long and vehement. They finally led to a 
break-up of the former comrades. Monet, Renoir, Sisley and Caillebotte Avith- 
drew. Besides Redon and Schuffenecker and a feAv other ne^vcomers ^vho had 
been invited, only Berthe Morisot, Mary Cassatt, Degas, Gauguin, Gtiillaumin 
and, of course, Camille Pissarro, were willing to appear with Seurat and Signac. 
Pissarro insisted that his paintings, those of his son, Lucien, and of Seurat and 
Signac, all be shown in the same room so as to stress the common effort of these 
four, while Degas wanted the word "impressionist" deleted from the announce- 
ments. The exhibition, thus annoimced merely as "Eighth Exhibition of 
Paintings," opened on May 15, 1886, at 1, rue Laffitte, at the corner of the bou- 
levard des Italiens, above the Restaurant Dore, and ran for a month. 

To this exhibition Seurat sent five landscapes" among which were several 
views of Grandcamp, three drawings and his painting of La Grande Jatte, 
listed in the catalogue as "U}i dimnnche apres-midi a I'ile de la Grande Jatte." 
Before the exhibit, artists and art-enthusiasts had been raihcr intrigued by Seu- 
rat's large composition which had been talked of in the studios. A painter an- 
nounced to the Irish author, George Moore, on May 15: 

Today is the opening of the exposition of the Impressionists . . . There is a canvas 
there twenty feet square and in three tints: pale yellow for the sunliglit. brown for 
the shadow, and all the rest is sky-blue. 1 here is, I am lold, a lady walking in the 
foregroiuid uitii a ring-tailed monkey, and the tail is said to be three yards long.-** 

George Moore also tells in his Cotifessions of a Young Man how they went 
in a group to kick up a row before Seurat's painting: 

28 



We went insolent with patent leather shoes and bright kid gloves, and armed with all 
the jargon of the school. "Cette jambe ne porte pas"; "la nature ne sc fait pas comnie 
9a"; "on dessine par les masses"; "combien de tetes?"; "sept et demie!"; "si j'avais un 
morceau de craie je mettrais celle-la dans un bocal, c'est tm foetus"; etc., in a word, all 
that the journals of culture are pleased to term an artistic education. And then the 
boisterous laughter, exaggerated in the hope of giving as much pain as possible.** 

And Signac recalls that on the day of the opening the well-known painter, 
Alfred Stevens, 

continually shuttled back and forth between the Maison Dore and the neighboring 
Cafe Tortoni to recruit those of his cronies who sipped at the famous terrace, and 
brought them to look at Seurat's canvas to show how far his friend Degas had fallen 
in welcoming such horrors. He threw his money on the turnstile and did not even 
wait for change, in such a hurry was he to bring in his batches. The monkey held on 
a leash by the woman in blue seemed particularly to excite the high spirits of these 
boulevardiers.*^ 

"A brilliant opening," was the comment in Le Figaro, "A big crowd, 
mostly women, and hence many beautiful gowns. "^^ This was its entire account 
of an exhibition at which representative works in a new style ^vere shown for 
the first time. 

As it happened, the room in which La Grande Jatte was exhibited was too 
narrow, and the spectators, unable to see Seurat's painting from the distance he 
had intended, were much provoked by it. Among the few visitors attracted by 
Seurat's large canvas was the Belgian poet, Emile Verhaeren, who has recorded 
his iinpressions: 

It covered a whole panel, flanked by the Bee dii Hoc and the Harbor of Grandcamp. 
The novelty of this art at once intrigued me. Not for an instant did I doubt its com- 
plete sincerity or profound originality; these were patent in the work before me. That 
evening I spoke of it to artists; they heaped me with laughter and ridicule.*" 

What added to the general confusion was the fact that the public was un- 
able to distinguish between the works of Seurat, Signac and the two Pissarros. 
This is the less astonishing when it is recalled that the critics themselves had 
several times confused the paintings of Monet and Sisley and even could not 
always distinguish between the different art mediums. The novelty of the pic- 
tures produced by these painters working with an identical palette and relying 
on a common method was too striking for the public, which saw thein all to- 
gether for the first time, to take note of subtle differences of personal quality. 
The fact was that personal quality seeined to be obliterated by La Grande 

29 



Jatte, which dominated the room. The lyricism of Signac and the naive rigid- 
ity of Camille Pissarro were ignored, and the critics were able to claim that the 
new method had completely destroyed the personalities of the painters who em- 
ployed it. 

Even a connoissem- as informed as George Moore could not at first make 
out which were the works of Seurat and which were those of Pissarro. Moore 
writes: 

Great as was my wonderment, it was tenfold increased on discovering that only six of 
these pictures were painted by the new man, Seurat, whose name was imknown to me; 
the other five were painted by my old friend Pissarro. My first thought went for the 
printer; my second for some fiimisterie on the part of the hanging committee, the in- 
tention of which escaped me. The pictures were hung low, so I went down on my 
knees and examined the dotting in the pictures signed Seurat, and the dotting in those 
that were signed Pissarro. After a strict examination I was able to detect some differ- 
ences, and I began to recognise the well-known touch even through this most wild and 
most wonderful transformation. Yes, owing to a long and intimate accjuaintance with 
Pissarro and his work, I could distinguish between him and Seurat, but to the ordi- 
nary visitor their pictures were identical.** 

Criticism with its disinclination for such careful study would have been im- 
faithful to its traditional role if, confronting this new type of painting, it had 
shown more understanding than a public composed of irresponsible young- 
sters, bewildered bourgeois and amateur collectors. Marcel Fouquier wrote in 
Le XIXe Siecle: 

Monsieur Seurat, who has been heralded by people with good judgment, exhibits an 
immense canvas of which the only quality is its complete lack of seriousness. There 
are a jockey — who obviously lost a leg over the last course of hedges — and a woman 
leading a monkey on a leash, which are extremely "farcical," as the merry Trublot 
would say.*" 

There were many who thought the whole thing was a hoax, that the artist 
was merely "pulling the legs of honest folk," and who consequently refused to 
take the canvas seriously. Even the avant-garde critic, Octave Mirbeau, de- 
spite the arguments of his friend Pissarro, confessed that the picture disap- 
pointed and exasperated him. He wrote: 

Monsieur Seurat is certainly very talented, and I have not the courage to laugh at his 
immense and detestable painting, so like an Egyptian fantasy, and which, in spite of 
its eccentricities and errors, which I hope arc sincere, shows signs of a true painter's 
temperament.^" 

30 



The same hesitation between sympathizing with the painter and deprecat- 
ing his major effort was evidenced by the literary critic, Emile Hennequin, in 
La Vie Moderjie: 

Monsieur Seurat has startled jaded eyes with a new technique which we are not com- 
petent to evaluate. But if we limit our judgment to the general effect of the canvases, 
we must point out the extreme refinement of tones in his works, notably in the views 
of Grandcamp. On the other hand, we cannot accept his Sunday at La Grande Jatte, 
for the tones in this painting are crude and the figures are set against the light in a 
way which makes them resemble poorly articidated wax figures.^^ 

While Mirbeau and Henneqtiin were unable to explain clearly the discom- 
fort they felt in the presence of Seurat's vast composition, Teodor de Wyzewa 
was ready to be the first to take a theoretical stand against this new technique, 
which according to him, lacked the intense life necessary to a work of art. In 
his aversion to the introduction of scientific methods into art, he did not 
scruple to question the sincerity of Seurat and his friends: 

The impressionist paintings of Manet, Cezanne and Monsieur Degas, express with 
exemplary sincerity the new sensations, the new world our eyes experience. Now here 
the successors to these artists are trying to perfect the forms created by them. They 
found in the notes of Delacroix, in the scientific discoveries of Chevreul and Rood, 
the suggestion for a type of painting in which color impressions are ordered by the 
combining of little multi-colored brush strokes. But while they were attentive to such 
improvement of the means, they forgot the true end of art, the sincere and complete 
expression of vivid sensations. The works of these painters — Pissarro and Seurat are 
the most notorious — are interesting only as the exercises of highly mannered vir- 
tuosos. Their paintings are lifeless for the painters did not strive for sincerity, being 
too taken up with external formulas.''- 

There was only one critic who had the courage to proclaim his unqualified 
admiration for the new painting. This was Felix Feneon. Ever since 1884 he 
had realized the importance of La Baignade/^ and now he devoted a long ar- 
ticle to Seurat's new canvas in the review. La Vogue. But instead of abandoning 
himself to facile enthusiasm, he attempted to do what no critic had yet done, to 
define clearly the new qualities and original traits of the canvas and to explain 
Seurat's new technique by analyzing La Grande Jatte. The subject, he pointed 
out, involved the following elements: 

A canicular sky, at four o'clock, summer, boats flowing by to the side, a group of 
chance Sunday visitors enjoying the fresh air among the trees; and these forty-odd 
persons are fixed in a hieratic and simplified composition, they are rigorously drawn, 
of some we see the backs, some we see full-face, some in profile, some are seated at 

31 



right angles, some are stretched out horizontally, some are standing up straight. The at- 
mosphere is transparent and singularly \ ibrant; the surface seems to fluctuate. Perhaps 
this sensation, which is also experienced in connection with other paintings in the 
same room, can be explained by the theory of Dove: the retina, expecting distinct 
rays of light to act on it, perceives in rapid alternation both the disassociated colored 
elements and their resultant color. 

Feneon also explained the painter's method: 

If you consider, for example, a few square inches of luiiform tone in Monsieur Seu- 
rat's Grande Jatic, you will find on each inch of this siuface, in a whirling host of tiny 
spots, all the elements which make up the tone. Take this grass plot in the shadow: 
most of the strokes render the local \alue of the grass: others, orange-tinted and thinly 
scattered, express the hardly-felt action of the sim: bits of purple introduce the com- 
plement to green; a cyanine blue, provoked by the proximity of a plot of grass in the 
sun, accumidates its siftings towards the line of demarcation, and at that point pro- 
gressively rarefies them. Only two elements come together to produce this grass plot in 
the sun, green, and orange-tinted light, any interaction being impossible under the 
furious beat of the sun's rays. Black being a non-light, the black dog is colored by the 
reactions of the grass; its dominant tint is therefore deep purple; but it is also at- 
tacked by the dark blue arising from neighboring spaces of light. The monkey on a 
leash is speckled with yellow, its personal quality, and dotted with pinple and ultra- 
marine. 

These colors, isolated on the canvas, recombine on the retina: we have therefore, 
not a mixture of material colors (pigments), but a mixture of differently colored rays 
of light. Need we recall that even when the colors are the same, mixed pigments and 
mixed rays of light do not necessarily produce the same results? It is also generally un- 
deistood that the luminosity of optical mixture is always superior to that of material 
mixture, as the many equations worked out by N. O. Rood show. For a violet-carmine 
and a prussian blue, from which a gray-blue results: 

50 carmine -f 50 blue 47 carmine + 49 blue + 4 black 



mixture of pigments mixture of rays of light 

for carmine and green: 

50 carmine + 50 green = 50 carmine + 24 green + 26 black 

We can understand why the impressionists, in striving to express extreme lutni- 
nosities — as did Delacroix before them — wish to substitute optical mixture for mix- 
ing on the palette. 

Monsieur Georges Seurat is the first to present a complete and systematic para- 
digm of this new technique. His immense canvas. I.a Grande Jntte, whatever part of 
it you examine, inuolls, a monotonous and patient tapestry: here in truth the accidents 
of tlie brush are futile, trickery is impossible; there is no place for bits of bravura. — 
let the hand be ninnb, but let the eye be agile, perspicacious, ciuining.'* 



32 






-^-^^^ FELIX FENEON - (^^.^M^ ^. 



AND THE NEO-IMPRESSIONISTS ^^^^^^^:^Z^ 

t 






\Jlaai. L^-^ ^^-^^^ 



Impressionist painting, emerging simultaneously with literary naturalism, had \J 
been defended by Zola and Duranty. The "divisionists," from the moment they ^ 
appeared, found supporters in the symbolist movement. The year i886, so im- i^-'V^ 
portant in the history of painting, was equally decisive for the development of , 
symbolist literature. It was in this year that ideas crystallized and gi'oups ^^ LJ 
formed. The first numbers of La Vogue, Le Symboliste and La DecadeJice ap- 
peared in i886. That year Moreas published a manifesto in favor of symbolism, 
and Mallarme, Verlaine, Jules Laforgue, Paul Adam, Gustave Kahn and Felix ""^ /^ 
Feneon began systematically to propound and propagate the new literary prin- 7^ — ~v-_ 
ciples. However, these authors, while united in their literary convictions, did . ^^ 
not all take the same view of painting. Mallarme, friend of Manet, was attached ^^ Qj 
to the generation of impressionists, whose marvels Jules Laforgtie — he was to rA'p>^ 
die that very year — had just discovered. Some years later, Mallarme and Mo- ^' 

reas made a great favorite of Gauguin, who, the one symbolist painter to M^j? 
emerge from the impressionists, did their portraits. Other members of the 
group supported Puvis de Chavannes or Gustave Moreau, attracted by the for- 
mer's majestic simplicity or the latter's flowery hieraticism.®^ But Henri de / ~ 
Regnier, Gustave Kahn, Paul Adam and Felix Feneon were attached to Seurat /^^ 
and his friends. As Gustave Kahn explains: 

We not only felt that we were leading a struggle for new ideas; we were attracted by 
something that seemed to parallel our own efforts: the kind of equilibrium, the search 
for an absolute departure which characterized the art of Seurat. We were sensitive to 
the mathematical element in this art. Perhaps the fire of youth had stirred up in us a 
number of half-certitudes which seemed strengthened by the fact that his experiments 
in line and color were in many respects exactly analogous to our theories of verse and 
phrase. The theory of discontinuity might very well have some relation to the theory 
of optical mixture. Painters and poets were mutually captivated by the possibility 
that this was the case.^*' 

33 




^ 



Of the symbolist authors associated with Seurat and his friends, Felix Fe- 
neon was the one ^vho became most intimate with the painter. And \vhat Zola 
had formerly done for Manet and his group, Feneon, less noisily but with no 
less fervor, undertook for their successors. He had not only the courage of his 
convictions, but, as Remy de Gourmont said, "all of the qualities of a critic of 
art: the eye, the analytical mind, the style which renders visible what the eye 
has seen and intelligible what the mind has understood."" 

Feneon and his friends often met late in the afternoon in the office of La 
Revue Independante, edited by Feneon and Kahn.^* Paul Alexis, the merry 
Trublot, who had become a great friend of Signac, reports that one found in 
this office between five and seven o'clock: 

the white beard of Pissarro, the silence of Seurat, the absence of Mallarme, occupied 
with other refinements, and sometimes Raffaelli. Verlaine would have been there but 
for his bad leg, and George Moore if he had not been in England. Jacques-Emile 
Blanche introduced a note of fashionable brilliance which was countered by the exu- 
berant Signac who addressed himself to the monocle that fled before the beard of 
Dubois-Pillet . . . Angrand entered, followed by Luce and Christophe. And then 
there was the strangely appearing Charles Henry, ^^ an inventor, who had dropped in. 
Felix Feneon, like the cold diplomat he was, arrived, looked around and told a story 
that would have made the Baron d'Ange blush; he remarked in a musical and heav- 
enly voice on how painful it was to have to deal with inked sheets. He had just left 
the ministry [where he was employed] for the art dealers, cold of aspect and with al- 
most dancing gait, wearing a silk top hat, his nose like that of Henry IV, the handle 
of his umbrella emerging from under his shoulder, its rod pointed at the ground.^" 

All those who have described Felix Feneon have testified to his reserved 
manner and skilled politeness. Feneon then — as now — was very tall and angu- 
lar; he was always impeccably dressed and looked like an English gentleman. 
His long face was set with clear and incredulous eyes, a prominent nose, a little 
pointed beard, a large and vaguely sardonic motuh; in his bearing there was 
an indescribable nuance of irony. His aristocratic feattires had a wholly intel- 
lectual beauty and seemed to forbid the expression of any emotion. His ges- 
tures were calm, polished, almost solemn. He spoke slowly and, without appear- 
ing to be aiming at anything, in a negligent and careless manner, got to the 
heart of whatever was in qtiestion. No banality ever crossed his lips; he fomid 
a brilliant formulation for whatever idea struck hiin. It was he who remarked 
dryly of the Luxembourg Museum where Manet, Degas and Pissarro were still 
unrepresented: 

34 




y 




20. p. SiGNAc: Profile of Felix Feneon, 1890. 



Oi^ 



21. H. DE Toulouse-Lautrec: Portrait of Felix Feneon, 



L-C-, 




We should applaud a conflagration that would cleanse the Luxembourgian stables if 
there were not in that museum a collection of documents indispensable for future 
monographs on the stupidity of the XlXth century.^^ 

The painters who were his friends did not fail to leave us portraits of Fe- 
neon. Signac did a symbolic portrait of him in which he appears with a cycla- 
men in his hand. The canvas is entitled On The Enamel of a Background 
Rhythmic with Beats and Angles, Tones and Tints, Portrait of Monsieur Felix 
Feneon in i8go, and Toulouse-Lautrec reserved for Feneon a place of honor 
near himself among the spectators on one of the two great decorations painted 
for the booth of La Goulue. The yellow and mephistophelian head with little 
pointed beard, seen in profile, represents the man Lautrec liked to compare 
with Buddha, dotibtless because of Feneon's manner of speech and impassive 
face. 

A widely curious and immensely cultivated mind, linked with all the avant- 
garde artists and writers of the late nineteenth century, Feneon played a role 
as inconspicuous as it was important. He collaborated with all the little, and 
sometimes short-lived, magazines that showed some independent spirit. La 
Vogue, Le Symboliste, the series of Les Hommes d'Aujourdhui, La Revue In- 




^ 






(^\A^ 



e^-^ w 
^-^ 



<3>6e_ 



r\i 



yOOnilAoi 




QjP^ 



^Vy~> 



h.<uP^^ 



^rmf 



dependante, L'Art Moderne, published in Brussels, and La Revue Blanche owe 
him, if not their very existence, at least many pages in his admirably precise 
style. Everywhere he went, among editors, publishers, in art circles, Felix Fe- 
neon opened the door wide to the young and authentic talents he invariably 
singled oiu from the crowd. To countless painters and writers he gave en- 
couragement and advice and also kindly criticism, delicate and ironical at times 
but always just. The friendship that linked him with Georges Seurat, a friend- 
ship %\hich began ^vhen Feneon saw the first great canvases of the unknown art- 
ist, ^vas not terminated by Seurat's death and apotheosis; it continues as a cult 
and an apostleship, nourished by Feneon's nobility of mind, intellectual cour- 
age, rare disinterestedness and affectionate admiration. 

The art criticisms which Feneon published in 1886 in La Vogue appeared 
at the close of the year in a brochure entitled Les hnpressionnistes en iS86.^- 
He clearly showed in this work that whatever joined Seurat and Signac to their 
predecessors Avas too indefinite a linkage for the new painters to be regarded as 
"impressionists" even though they had participated in the eighth exhibition of 
the group. It was at this time that the term "neo-impressionist" first appeared, 
designating the artists who followed Seurat and divided their colors as he did.*^ 
As Signac puts it: 

If these painters, better designated by the term chrnmn-himinnrisls adopted the name 
neo-impressionists , it was not in order to curry favor (the impressionists had still not 
won their own battle), but to pay homage to the efforts of their predecessors and to 
emphasize that while procedures varied, the ends were the same: UgJit and color. It is 
in this sense that the term neo-impressionist should be understood, for the technique 
employed by these painters is utterly unlike that of the impressionists: to the degree 
that the technique of the latter is instinctive and instantaneous that of the neo-im- 
pressionists is deliberate and constant.^* 



36 



NEW EXHIBITIONS 
NEW YORK, PARIS, BRUSSELS 



Feneon's brochure, Les Impressiounistes en 1886, had historical meaning 
beyond the sense of its title. It not only supplied the first analysis of Seurat's 
technique, but in emphasizing the triumph of system over intuition presaged 
the disruption of the impressionist group. The fact is that the impressionists 
never again organized an exhibition after their eighth show, already so incom- 
plete. Disputes about the "divisionist" technique of Seurat and Pissarro finally 
brought about the break-up of the old comrades. The first exhibition of the 
group in which those who called themselves neo-impressionists participated 
was at the same time the last collective effort of the old-guard impressionists. 

At the very moment when the painters were assembling their works for the 
exhibition at the Maison Dore, Paul Durand-Rtiel, whose affairs had taken an 
almost disastrous turn, was receiving an invitation from the American Art As- 
sociation. With a courage steeled by desperation he resolved to collect a great 
number of paintings for an important exhibition in America, the first of its 
kind. The official dealer of Manet, Renoir, Monet, Sisley and Pissarro, he 
yielded to the latter's insistence and decided to include certain works by Seurat 
and Signac. In March of 1886 Durand-Ruel left for New York with 300 can- 
vases, which he planned to place on exhibition in Madison Square Garden, the 
show to be annoiniced simply as: Works in Oil and Pastel by the hnpressionists 
of Paris. The Neiv York Daily Tribune observed: 

Tlie coming of the French Impressionists has been preceded by much violent lan- 
guage regarding their paintings. — Those who have the most to do with such con- 
servative investments as the works of Bouguereau, Cabanel, Meissonier and Gerome 
have imparted the information that the paintings of the Impressionists partake the 
character of a "crazy quik" being only distinguished by such eccentricities as blue 
grass, violently green skies and water with the coloring of a rainbow. In short it has 
been said that the paintings of this school are utterly and absolutely worthless.*'^ 

In order to soften the shock which the works of these painters,*"^ and of Si- 
gnac and Seurat (the latter had sent his Baignade and several landscapes) were 
likely to cause the American ptiblic, Durand-Ruel included a few academic 

37 



paintings with the others. But contrary to expectations, the reaction of the pub- 
lic was not violent at all, and the exhibition achieved a real succes d'estime. 
Durand-Rviel explained it thus: 

Since I was almost as famous in America as in France for having been one of the first 
defenders of the great painters of 1830, they came to examine carefully and without 
prejudice the works of my new friends. It was presumed that these works had some 
value since I had continued to support them.*' 

The attitude of the American public also showed that the imceasing at- 
tempts of Mary Cassatt to interest her compatriots in impressionist art had 
borne fruit. Some of her friends had even consented to add canvases from their 
own collections to the pictures already assembled by Durand-Rtiel, thus lend- 
ing the exhibition the prestige of their names. As a matter of fact, people took 
so lively an interest in the show that it ran for a month longer than originally 
planned; it was taken in May to the National Academy of Design. This practi- 
cally amounted to receiving an official blessing. 

While the Parisian press had wrapped its ignorance in facile pleasantries 
and ridiculous theories, the American critics took a broad view of the paint- 
ings. Instead of pretending that the impressionists did not know how to draw, 
or that their "paint-smears" were indications of impotence, they conceded 
from the first: 

It is distinctly felt that the painters have worked with decided intention, that if they 
have neglected established rules it is because they have outgrown them, and that if 
they have ignored lesser truths, it has been in order to dwell more strongly on larger.** 

The reviewer of The Critic remarked: 

Every visitor to the exhibition has brought away with him an impression of strange 
and unholy splendor, or depraved materialism, according to the depth of his knowl- 
edge and experience. 

And the writer added: 

It is seldom that what is virtually an entire school of art is transported bodily from 
one country to another; yet this has been done in the case of the impressionists. In 
this exhibition you may study the school from its superb beginnings in the earlier 
works of Manet down to the contemporary period, when color and composition have 
been borrowed from Japan, and the whole solar spectrum is found on a foot of can- 
vas ... 

This allusion to the works of Seurat and his friends Avas further developed by 
the observation that in 

38 




A* ^ f.^.*J: "^ ^ t^ 




^ltl^j:. 






22. G. Seurat: L'Entree du Port de Honfleur, 1886. 

Seurat's large and uncouth composition Bathers the uncompromising strength of the 
impressionist school is fully revealed."^ 

Happily for Paul Durand-Ruel the moral success of the exhibition was 
coupled with a certain number of sales/" However, none of Seurat's works 
found an American buyer, and Durand-Ruel brought them back to France 
when he returned in the summer of 1886. Seurat was then at Honfleur where 
he painted several seascapes, among them Coin d'un Bassin a Honfleur which 
he sent to the exhibition of the Independa7its. 

The Independent Artists who had not held an exhibition during the pre- 
vious year showed their works in the Tuileries in August 1886/^ Besides this 
canvas of Honfleur and several seascapes done in 1885 at Grandcamp, Seurat 
showed his Grande Jatte again. Le Figaro announced the event as: 

Not very interesting, this exhibition, from the point of view of art, but to be recom- 
mended to people who suffer from disorders of the spleen; we advise those of our 
friends who like to laugh to visit this exhibition. The room devoted to the "intran- 
sigeants of painting" is particularly unspeakable. ^- 

Felix Feneon again devoted an article to Seurat's technique. It appeared in 
La Vie Moderne, a review published in Brussels by Octave Maus, Edmond 



39 



Picard and Emile Verhaeren. In this new piece Feneon made a particular point 
of various technical problems. Camille Pissarro, who had looked over Feneon's 
notes, wrote his son that he feared these questions were "only too well ex- 
plained in the article, and the painters will take advantage of it.""'' 

Ha\ing shown that the art of Seurat and his friends marked a step in ad- 
vance of impressionism insofar as it made it possible "to construct a painting in 
a precise and rigorous manner," Feneon added: 

For the originators of this new painting every colored surface sends out colorations of 
diverse strengths, which tend to grow less; they interpenetrate like circles of waves, 
and the painting is unified and synthesized in a general sensation of harmony. The 
first efforts in this direction were made less than two years ago: the period of hesi- 
tancy is o\er: picture by picture these artists have strengthened their style, increased 
their sum of observations, clarified their science. Points still not elucidated. In the 
paintings of Monsieur Pissarro, a colored surface acts not only through its comple- 
mentary color on neighboring surfaces, but reflects on them some of its own color, 
even when it is not brilliant, even when the eye does not see its reflection clearly. The 
position of Seurat and Signac appears to be less affirmative. And, for example, the 
woman in the foreground of A Sunday at La Grande Jatte stands in the grass and yet 
not one spot of green contributes to the formation of the tone of her dress."* 

Then, insisting on the problems arising from the chemical compositions of 
different colors which occasion transformations and deteriorations, Feneon ar- 
gued for framing paintings under glass, explaining that the application of col- 
ors flatwise would prevent the paint from cracking after it dried. Touching 
the question of the frame itself he remarked: 

With the abandonment of the gold frame, destructive of orange tones. Pissarro, Seurat, 
Dubois-Pillet and Signac temporarily adopt the classic frame of the impressionists, the 
while frame whose neutrality is friendly to everything near it, if it contains, to at- 
tenuate its crudity, clear chrome yellow, vermilion and lac. 

Reviewing the works of the various painters, Feneon concluded Avith im- 
concealed satisfaction: 

As for the new recruits to impressionism they will take the path of the analyst Camille 
Pissarro and not that of Claude Monet." 

Asked to show his paintings in Nantes in November 1886, Pissarro once 
again used his influence on behalf of his young friends, and Setnat and Signac 
were able to show their works with his.'" Meantime Seurat and Signac had re- 
turned from their "suinmer campaign." Signac, Avho had worked at Les An- 
delys on the bank of the Seine, now made ready to paint some views of Paris, 
while Seurat, after his return from Honfleur, began in his studio a new large 

40 




23- G. Seurat: Still Life, Study for "Les Posenses," iJ 



41 



canvas, Les Poseuses {The Three Models). It was at this time that he received 
an invitation from Octave Maus to show his paintings with a gioup of inde- 
pendent Belgian artists known as Les Vingt. Pissarro and Paul Signac were also 
invited. Seurat sent La Grande Jatte and six landscapes of Honfleur and Grand- 
camp and then, in February 1887, went to Brussels with Signac to be present 
at the opening of the exhibition. 

As was to be expected, La Grande Jatte, better displayed than it had been 
in Paris, was from the first the center of attention and the subject of lively dis- 
putes. The press spoke of 

. . . farceurs like Seurat and Pissarro, who are not taken seriously by any artist and 
do not deserve to be. They can congratulate themselves on being welcomed with 
nothing worse than ridicule in Brussels."^ 

It would be difficult to be more independent than Seurat or to paint with more dis- 
dain for the old stuff called drawing, color, and the organization of the picture.'* 

Emile Verhaeren published in La Vie Modenie, the review in which the 
skeptical study by Hennequin had already appeared, an enthusiastic article on 
Semat. He wrote: 

In the present show the clarion call is soimdcd by Monsieur Seurat. La Grande Jatte! 
They press about it, insult it, mock it. The Goncourt brothers were right: "A painting 
on exhibition hears more nonsense than anything else in the world." La Grande Jatte 
deserves the most careful study. It is luminous, and to such a degree that it is almost 
impossible to become interested in the other landscapes near it. .-Xn atmospheric pu- 
rity, a total aerial vibration, fills it. The Seine, the green shadow, the golden grass and 
the sky, influence one another, color one another, interpenetrate and produce a tre- 
mendous sensation of life. 

Monsieur Seurat is described as a savant, an alchemist, who knows what? However 
he uses his scientific experiments only for the purpose of controlling his vision. They 
give him an extra degree of sureness. Where is the harm? La Grande Jatte is painted 
with a primitive naiveness and honesty. Looking at it we are reminded of Gothic art. 
As the old masters, risking rigidity, arranged their figures in hierarchic order. Mon- 
sieur Seurat synthesizes attitudes, postures, gaits. What the masters did to express their 
time he attempts for his, and with equal care for exactness, concentration and sin- 
cerity. He does not do over again what they did. He makes a unique use of their pro- 
found method in order to sum up the life of the present. The gestures of these prome- 
naders, the groups they form, their goings and comings, are essential. The whole work 
appears as the result of many occasional observations. It has a great and glorious 
swing, and that is why enthusiasms are harnessed to it like prancing horses. E\en the 
public, which has rejected the major effort of the painter, was attracted by his smaller 
paintings: Seascapes and Harbours. Two canvases have been sold . . . Never has any- 
one achieved grandeur with such precise detail. The Bee du Hoc and the Lighthouse 
of Honfleur are at once minutely detailed and immense.'" 

42 




24- E. Laurent: Portrait of Georges Seurat, 



SEURAT AND HIS FRIENDS 



The little group of neo-impressionists was soon augmented by new adherents 
in France and also in Belgium where the exhibition of the Vingt had made 
the work of Seurat widely known among artists. One by one, Maximilien Luce, 
Albert Gausson, Hippolyte Petitjean, Theo van Rysselberghe, Henri Vande- 
velde and others joined the circle that had been formed around Seurat by Si- 
gnac, Cross, Angrand, Dubois-Pillet, Hayet, Camille and Lucien Pissarro. Vin- 
cent van Gogh for a short time experimented with the pointillist technique, 



43 





25- M. Luce: I'oi trait of H.-E. Cross, about 1890. 



26. M. Luce: Portrait of Camillc Pissarro, 1890. 



Paul Gauguin and his friend, Emile Schuffenecker, also tried the method, 
using Seurat's execution but not observing the la'ws of contrasting colors.*" 
While van Gogh and Gauguin, who did not belong to the neo-impressionist 
group, quickly abandoned the einployment of dots of color, the others were 
convinced that Seurat's method would enable them to achieve greater har- 
mony, to balance fugitive sensations and produce more linninous effects. Semat 
was therefore the tmcontested leader of the little grouj). E\"en the painters ^dio 
did not belong to his circle so considered him; van Gogh, for example, wrote 
his brother, "The leader ... is undoubtedly Seurat."*' And according to 
Emile Verhaeren: 



All his Iricnds, the painters and the others, felt that he was the real force in the group 
. . . He was the most persistent seeker, he had the strongest will and was the one 
most determined to uncover the imknown. He had complete concentration, he was an 
integrator of ideas, a savage synthesizer forcing every chance remark to reveal laws, 
attentive to the least detail that might fdl out his system . . . He never regarded his 
comrades-in-arms as being on the same plane as he.®- 

If Seurat was the leader of the neo-impressionists, Signac \\'as their best 
propagandist. He ne\'er ^veariet^ of proselytizing and was continually arguing 




I^-- !Si»««n »tw 




27. G. Seurat: Portrait of Paul Signac, 1889-90. 



28. G. Seurat: Portrait of Paul Alexis, 1888. 



for the new theory. He never let pass any opjDortunity to profess his faith, and 
when, for instance, in Zola's L'Oeuvre, which first appeared in serial form in 
Le Gil Bias early in 1886, Signac read the following passage: "The red of the 
flag turns to violet because it unfurls against the blue of the sky," he immedi- 
ately wrote the novelist to point out his mistake. And Zola obediently changed 
the text when the book appeared, substituting the formulation suggested by 
Signac: 

The red of the flag sinks and becomes yellow, because it is unfurled against the sky's 
blue, whose complementary color, orange, combines with red.^^ 

Seurat himself was much less inclined to propagate his beliefs and even 
complained of being "too much imitated." Pissarro. explaining in his letter to 
Durand-Ruel the new theory which henceforth would be his also, -^vas careftil 
to add that it was "Monsieur Seurat, an artist of great ability, who first con- 
ceived the idea and applied the scientific theory after profound study. I have 
only followed him."*^ Insisting in this way on the authorship of Seurat, Pissarro 
tried to humor the latter's pride, ^drich ^vas extremely sensitive where ques- 
tions of artistic merit were concerned. But even the candor and modesty of 



45 




ag. M. Luce: X'iew of Moniiiiartre, 1887. 



Pissarro could not prevent some unfortunate episodes. For example, in 1890 
Georges Lecomte in an article on Pissarro,*"* while not attributing the new 
method to the old painter, neglected to say who had initiated it, and Seurat did 
not conceal his anger and chagrin.*® 

Jealous of his theories to the point of suspiciousness, Seurat at one time, it 
appears, even hesitated to exhibit his works, fearing that other painters would 
avail themselves of his discoveries. All those who knew him during this period 
report that he was extremely reserved and seldom participated in the discus- 
sions of his colleagues. He listened without saying a word except when directly 
questioned or when the problems of painting were touched on, most particu- 
larly when his method was discussed.*' 

Taciturn and versatile, Seurat was perfectly aware of his role as leader, but 
at no time imduly emphasized his position. He seems to have accepted the place 
he occupied as a natural consequence of his intellect and efforts. When he met 
his friends of evenings at La Nouvelle Athcnes, where Degas, Gauguin, Guil- 
laumin, Pissarro held forth, or at La Taverne A?iglaise on the rue d'Amster- 

46 




30. P. SiGNAc: Gas-meters at Clichy, 1886. 



dam, where the collaborators on the review, La Vogue, held their meetings, it 
was as a silent witness to their debates. 

Seurat's friends discussed, in the main, problems of literature, painting and 
politics. The period was marked by the violent actions and inanifestoes of the 
anarchists and by vigorous agitation among working-class groups and intellec- 
tuals. Feneon, Pissarro, I.uce and Signac did not conceal their sympathy for the 
extremists, but Seurat did not openly profess his political beliefs. It may be 
presumed, however, that he shared the views of his friends, for, as Feneon 
puts it, 

his literary and artistic friends and those who supported his work in the press be- 
longed to anarchist circles, and if his opinions had differed radically from theirs, the 
fact would have been remarked.** 

Participating only in those discussions which dealt with the problems of art, 
Seurat, at such moments, was heard with respect. He was completely serious 
and never lapsed into fantasy. His reserved attitude and extreme lucidity gave 
weight to his words. And after all, there were his canvases, the luminous proofs 

47 





rA.^^V^ 



* «^ ¦". »-- * 



31. C. FissARRo: The Railroad to Dieppe, 1886. 




of the theories he sustained. For although Seurat seldom brought his friends to 
his studio to show them the progress of his work, at exhibitions he enjoyed 
elucidating his paintings to them. Verhaeren says: 

To hear Seurat making his confession before his year's work was to feel his sincerity 
and to be conquered by his eloquence. Calmly, with careful gestures, his eye never 
leaving you, and his slow and unemphatic tones seeking rather didactic formulas, he 
showed you the results obtained, what was clearly proved, what he called the base. 
Then he asked your opinion, took you as a witness, awaited the word which would 
indicate that you had understood. He was very modest, almost timid, even though 
you felt all the lime his unspoken pride of accomplishment. He was hardly ever vio- 
lent in his criticisms of others, and even pretended certain admirations which at bot- 
tom he did not feel, but at such limes you sensed that he was condescending and with- 
out jealousy. He never raged against the success of others even when such success was 
rightfully his due.*' 

While often indulgent t()\vards his colleagues, Setirat idolized few of the 
great masters. According to Gtistave Kahn: 

48 




32. T. VAN Rvssflberc.hk: The Readini; (\'eihaeien and his Friends), 1903. 



The affection he felt for former works of art was bestowed on stich stylized works as 
those of the Egyptians and the primitives. But he was much moved by more flexible 
works, like Greek frescoes and statues of Phidias. He admired many of the romantic 
masters and landscapists, but only Delacroix did he love passionately. As for the first 
impressionists, he said frankly that the three important leaders in terms of their own 
work and their influence on others, were Degas, Renoir and Pissarro."" 

When Seurat became interested in another painter's ^vork he would care- 
fully analyze it. Had he not, as a beginner, looked for signs of divisionism in 
the great works at the Louvre? He was attracted to Monet, ^vhose paintings he 
had been made acqtiainted with by Signac, and he went with Pissarro to the 
shop of pere Tanguy, the old dealer in picttires and paints, to see canvases of 
Cezanne, whose qualities Pissarro never left off praising. At Pissarro's sugges- 
tion, Signac even bought a Cezanne landscape, executed with square strokes. 
And Seinat too began to ^vish for an important exhibition of the works of the 
solitary of Aix."^ For his part, Seurat, in order to help Camille Pissarro, who 

49 



'^ w 




33. V. VAN Gogh: Interior of a Restaurant in Paris, about 1^ 



had lost his buyers since adopting the new technique, persuaded his mother to 
buy a painting by the old master. 

Seurat's interest in his contemporaries was not restricted to the members of 
his own group or those they thought of as precursors. He responded to the 
works of Gauguin and ^vas sensitive to their definite technique and sculptural 
quality. Seurat is supposed to have owned a copy of a manuscript of Gauguin, 
an extract from an oriental text on the coloring of rugs, in which there were 
many shrewd observations on the gradations of tones; however, according to 
Seurat, the text was inadequate."' 

Seurat had been charmed by the gaiety of the posters of Cheret, whom Fe- 
neon called "the Tiepolo of the billboards." and he studied Cheret's drawings 
to discover the aesthetic secrets of the poster-maker's means of expression."* In 
every work he saw, in every article he read, Seiuat looked for evidence that 
might confirm his theories. 

Present at the meetings of the group, talking occasionally, working hard 



50 




34. p. Gauguin: Still Life, Ripipoint, 1889. 



with the others to organize the successive exhibitions of the hidependants, 
Seurat remained nonetheless a mystery to most of his associates. Among his 
friends he went his own ardent, solitary way, and even those most intimate 
knew little of him. Rarely communicative, he achieved a perfect separation of 
the man and the artist. His life was almost totally absorbed by his art, but the 
little which remained he appropriated to himself. Only after his death did his 
best friends learn of the mistress with whom he spent his last years and who 
bore his son. 

Seurat's friends do not seem to agree about the painter's physical appear- 
ance. Aman-Jean maintains that Seurat was very beautiful and resembled the 
St. George of Donatello, Lucie Cousturier says he looked like an "executive," 
his fellow-scholar, de Carabin, speaks of his "Christ-like" head, while Gustave 
Kahn was reminded by his "delicate yet massive profile, of Assyrian kings," 
Teodor de Wyzewa, struck by Seurat's high stature, beard and candid glance, 
thought he was most like some Italian master of the Renaissance, and if Degas 

51 




>. ir* 

35. G. Sklrat: Man Dining, ihe Anisi's Father. al)<)nt 188.}. 



dubbed Seurat the notary because of his always impeccable apj3earance. Signac 
on the other hand, asserts that he was robust and strongly built, like an in- 
jautrynuni. And Camille Pissarro said more than once that he was "colder, 
more logical and more self-controlled" than any of the others in the group.®* 
According to Lucie Cousturier's more complete description: 

Seural's physical appearance was what one would have anticipated from seeing the 
finely shaped, rigid and calm figures he created. It was in strict attitudes which hard- 
ened his full and lofty forms that he tempered the passionate impulses of his soul. No 
sudden movements shook his comely head, so firmly set on his shoulders, and no 
ti()ul)lcd expression disturbed his regular and impassive features, framed in brown. 
But to engage him in even a brief discussion of painting was to lie at once made aware 
that his glance could take fire and his voice waver hinnanly. impatient to affirm his 
beliefs. Seurat, al)sorbing the tenderness of light from nature, was as gentle as the 
\cl\ct of his eyes and dark brows proclaimed him to be. but he became suspicious 
and reserved if one ])roI)ed tiie interior self whidi he cidiixaied in secret. Ordinarily 

52 




36. G. Seurat: Woman Sewing, the Artist's Mother, ai)out 1884. 

not inclined to play a leading conversational role, he took complete charge of any 
discussion in which important aspects of painting were involved. At such times he 
swept from his inner life like a she-wolf on the scent, but no one could follow him to 
his lair.^s 



Seurat's "lair" was his studio. Here he painted in total solitude. When the 
weather made work outdoors impossible, he remained in his studio, going out 
to limch 

in a great hurry, to the nearest restaurant, wearing a narrow-brimmed felt hat far 
back on his head and a short jacket; no one could have been more casual, but his 
height, the severe regularity of his features and the contemplative calm of his glance, 
gave him as ever an appearance of gravity."® 

But when, at the day's end, Seurat, ahvays punctual, left the studio on the 
Boulevard de Clichy, near Signac's, to dine with his family, he was faultlessly 

53 



¦Ksrc**^"' 




^tf^ 


k ..^ J* L .i>.. * .L'1-. 1 


^_/,_^ ,i; 




TBSS'A'B" 


1 


^1 


H 






*9 




^^P 


^i:.?ifl||| 


a^l 


^Hm ^^^^Bi^ ^ 


¦tji^j^^ 




|J 


Hr 


- Ia^I^bB 


l^^l 


^Hk,:; ---.j-jifefeiaa 


¦f^ii 


SI 


V^^^^T^^I 














1 



37. G. Seurat: Saltimbanques, Couple Dancing, about 1886. 

attired. Hating negligence and eccentricity, he dressed with the same meticu- 
lous care he brought to everything he undertook. Those who saw him at the 
committee meetings and openings of the Indepeyidants, which he attended 
with religious regularity, never knew him except in black with stylish top hat, 
as were his friends, Feneon and Signac. He was always in black or dark blue 
when his friends saw him walking along the line of outside boulevards between 
the Place Clichy and the Boidevard Magenta where his mother lived. 

Seurat's work did not end when he joined his friends at La Nouvelle Athe- 
nes or at La Taverne Anglaise, since he was able to paint by gas light. When 
Mallarme in i888 published a translation of Whistler's Ten O' Clock address 
in La Revue Independayite, Seurat was the only one not surprised by Whistler's 
remark that the painter's work could begin at the very moment the artificial 
lights are turned on. And he said to Gustave Kahn: "That is the aper^u of a 
great painter. Whistler is right."''" 

When an unfinished canvas did not keep him in the studio, Seurat liked to 
spend his evenings at the fairs, circuses and music-halls. The fairs at Neuilly, at 
the Place du Trone or at St. Cloud, and the Cirque Fernando, one of the five 



54 





i. G. Seurat: The Artist in his Studio, about li 



39. M. Luce: Portrait of Georges Seurat, li 



great circuses of Paris (to which Renoir and Degas came to make drawings), 
were his favorites, at least when he was not at the music-halls, La Gaiete Roche- 
chouart, Le Diva?! Japoyiais (later favored by Lautrec) or Le Concert Euro- 
peen. Seurat observed these boisterous and colorful spectacles with an eye more 
interested than amused. From the fairs, circuses and cabarets he brought back 
many drawings, sometimes livened with color, drawings vibrant with the verve 
and mystery of these worlds apparently outside reality, or rather belonging to 
a reality strange to us. All the grace and destitution, the false gaiety and the 
real joyousness of those beings who sometimes distract themselves and some- 
times suffer while they distract others, are reflected in the drawings and paint- 
ings they inspired Seurat to make. But his treatment avoided sentimentality as 
well as exuberance; only occasionally does his brush betray the slightest irony. 
Far from pitying, like van Gogh, or emphasizing as Lautrec would, the gro- 
tesqueness of these human puppets, Seurat, a sober although intense observer, 
sought only pretexts for masterful experiments in line and composition when 
he looked at the swarming throngs in the sideshows and fairs. 

Late in the night he returned not to his mother's place, but to his scantily 



55 



furnished studio. His relations with his family could hardly have been very 
sentimental. Aman-Jean, who shared Seurat's studio after they left the Ecole 
des Beaux-Arts, relates that he saw Seurat's mother once, his father sometimes. 
This man of pecidiar habits was most of the time at his house in Le Raincy, 
just outside Paris, where he gave himself to strange religious practices. Only 
Paul Signac seems to have been admitted to Seurat's family, and in a letter to 
Felix Feneon, in which he discussed the drawing Man l)ini)ig, Signac Avrote: 

Vou know the man dining is Georges' father. I had dinner with him and Georges 
many times at Madame Seurat's, on Tuesdays, the day this husband had chosen for 
discharging his conjugal duties. — You also know that he had an artificial arm, not 
from birth — although his personality was eccentric enough to make such originality 
plausible — but as a result of some accident, while hunting, I believe. At the table he 
screwed kni\es and forks to the end of this arm and proceeded to carve with speed 
and even transport, muttons, filets, small game and fowl. He positively juggled these 
sharp steel-edged weapons, and when I sat near him I feared for my eyes. — Georges 
paid no attention to these music-hall feats."* 

Seurat seems to ha\ e made several drawings of his father and mother; there 
is a drawing of a little boy for ^\hich his brother may ha\'e posed: btu is it not 
significant that (except for the drawing Man Di)ii)ig) one cannot be sure of the 
identity of his models? Seurat ^vould make drawings of his parents just as he 
would draw a '^voman crossing the street or a plasterer at work on a ^vall. Noth- 
ing in his life had meaning except insofar as it was relevant to his art. 

If his relations with his family were limited to dining at his mother's home, 
if his participation in the discussions of his friends centered on problems of art, 
if his dress was simple, correct and impersonal, his studio furnishings were also 
restricted to the indispensable. Gustave Kahn relates that his 

little monkish room contained a low narrow bed, facing old canvases turned to the 
wall. La Baignade and seascapes. In the studio on the white walls himg drawings done 
in the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, a little painting by Guillaumin. a Constantin Guys, sev- 
eral Foiains, canvases and drawings become habitual and for him simply familiar 
colorations, part of his wall; there were a red divan, a few chairs, a little table heaped 
with magazines edited by friends, books by yoimg writers, brushes, ])aints and a to- 
bacco pouch. Covering an entire panel was I.a Grande Jntte.^" 

In addition to these finiiishings there were several easels, a ladder, a little 
stove hardly adecjuate against severe cold, as well as several sttidies by Setnat 
himself and a poster by Jtdes Cheret. A corner of this studio with the sttidies 
and La Grande Jatte, the sto\'e and the red seat, apjjcars in the can\as Les Po- 
seuses, done in 1887. 

56 




¦if ^ '*'^ir» 








40. G. Seurai: Ihe Stove in Semats Studio, Study for "Les Poseuses," 1887. 



SEURAT S THEORIES 



In a conversation with Gustave Kahn. Seurat once defined painting as the art 
of holloiving a surface. At the same time he explained that while the science of 
aesthetics was not the whole story, since there were intimate elements in art, 
even in its technique, which only the painter himself could recognize and deal 
with, for his part he was convinced of the absolute need to base his theories on 
scientific truths/*"^ 

While Seurat the painter was indivisible from Seurat the theorist, there are 
certain sayings of his that may be considered to spring from the one rather than 
the other. It was Seurat the painter who said that he could only paint what he 
saw before his eyes^"^ and declared that the dra^ving -^vas the fundamental ele- 
ment in painting, and also that harmony of color shotild flow from harmony of 
line. But it ^vas Seurat the theorist who attempted to generalize the laws of 
color and line. 



57 



The art of hollowing a surface became for Seurat the theorist a science to 
be studied by reading mathematical writings and to be developed by painting 
pictures. During the years which followed the completion of La Gratide Jatte 
Seurat systematically attacked every one of the problems of painting. Only still 
lifes are lacking in his work, and even these can be located in sections of his 
large canvases. Having studied in La Grande Jatte the movements of people 
outdoors and reproduced in landscapes nature in repose, Seurat painted, in 
turn, immobile nudes in the studio {Les Poseuses), the portrait {Jeune Femme 
se poudrant), immobile figures oiudoors under artificial lighting {La Parade) 
and moving figures indoors, also under artificial lighting {Le Chahut and Le 
Cirque). The figures in these paintings are dominated by monotony or joy 
(there is no sadness in the pictures of Seurat) and are, of course, governed by 
strict rules, being controlled by that play of line and color whose laws Seurat 
had studied. In these canvases Seurat, without yielding in any way to the lit- 
erary or the picturesque, rehabilitated the subject which had been relin- 
quished by the impressionists. His works are "exemplary specimens of a highly 
developed decorative art, which sacrifices the anecdote to the arabesque, no- 
menclature to synthesis, the fugitive to the permanent, and confers on natine — 
weary at last of its precarious reality — an authentic reality," wrote Feneon.^*"- 

If Seurat never let himself be caught in the "charming traps" set by nature, 
if he had the strength to renounce all details that would detract from the sim- 
plicity of the whole, it was because he had a cold reasonableness which, 
prompted by his lack of imagination, thrust him towards the essential. "When 
he wanted to feel in a certain way," says Paul Adam, "he modified nature in 
accordance with his will."^"^ And will, often literary with Gauguin, bent mainly 
on observation of the model with Cezanne, with Seurat was directed towards 
line and ornament, livened by tints and tones. Signac says: "It is by the har- 
mony of lines and colors which he can manipulate in accordance with his needs 
and will, and not by his subject that the painter should move."'"^ 

While Gauguin said disdainfully, "In art we have just passed through a pe- 
riod of bewildered wandering, caused by physics, chemistry, mechanics and the 
study of nature, "^°* and while Cezanne complained that "the ignorance of har- 
mony is being revealed more and more in the discordance of the coloring and, 
what is even worse, in the deadness of the tone,"*"® Seiu^at continued to work 
for a new organization of painting based on science. Hence he kept up with all 
the new theories of color and perspective. He studied The Scientific Theory 

58 



of Color and Its Relation to Art and Industry by N. O. Rood, he became ex- 
tremely interested in the researches of Charles Henry (Signac collaborated with 
Henry for a time), who published in 1888 Le cercle chromatique presentant 
tous les complements et toutes les harmonies de coiilexirs and also Le rappor- 
teur aesthetique permettant I'etude et la rectification aesthetique de toute 
forme}°'' And Seurat collected David Sutter's articles on visual phenomena 
which appeared in the review L'Art in 1880. 

Seurat was interested in the laws Sutter arrived at (Sutter summed them up 
in 167 rules) and also in the more general import of Sutter's conclusions. In- 
deed, Sutter's point of departure was a principle dear to Seurat: 

One must look at nature with the eyes of the mind and not merely with the eyes of 
the body, like beings without reason . . . There are colorists' eyes as there are tenor 
voices, but these gifts of nature have to be stimulated by science to develop to the 
full . . . Despite their absolute character, rules do not hamper the spontaneity of in- 
vention or execution. Science delivers us from every form of uncertainty and enables 
us to move freely within a wide circle; it would be an injury both to art and science to 
believe that one necessarily excludes the other. Since all rules are derived from the 
laws of nature, nothing is easier to learn or more necessary to know. In art everything 
should be willed.^"* 

Seurat also found in Sutter's writings the answer to a problem which had al- 
ways occupied him: the relation between the laws of optics and of music. Many 
times he had asked his friends whether they thought the innovations in paint- 
ing had any technical similarity to, or at least any inttiitive kinship with, the 
new music of Wagner,"^ and he found in Sutter this categorical assertion which 
could not but confirm his own convictions: 

The laws of the aesthetic harmony of colors can be taught as the rules of musical har- 
mony are taught.^^" 

The 167 rules formulated by Sutter contained many propositions, or rather, 
precepts, which also confirmed the results of Seurat's experiments. These are 
some of Sutter's assertions: 

Perspective is the primary element in the composition of a painting; for the grada- 
tion of light and colors is proportional to the perspective gradation of lines. 

The unity of the picture is comprised by the unity of aesthetic lines, masses, dis- 
junctions, chiaroscuro, colors and the moral traits of the given subject. 

There are two characteristic dispositions in which the subject is held: the vertical 
and the horizontal. 

The mass of light should exceed or be less than the mass of shadow. 

59 



A mass appears to be greater to the degree that it iiuhules in itself fewer small de- 
tails. 

That j)lane is most luminous on which the light falls most perpendicularly. 

The more intense the light, the more color the shadows will reflect. 

1 he dominant color of the picture should be supported by analogous tones which 
constitute the imitv of colors. 

1 he complementary colors: red and green, orange and blue, yellow and violet, 
ha\ e the property of reproducing white light. 

There are three warm colors: red, orange, yellow. 

There are three cold colors: green, blue, violet. 

A\'hen the light is warm, the shadows are cold. 

^Vhen the light is cold, the shadows are warm. 

The intensity of reflections is proportional to the cjuantity of light. 

A color is always modified by the proximity of another color. 

The best ordered form is that which most completely imprisons the intelligence. 

Science can be learned, sentiment can perfect, genius comes from God."> 

And David Sutter concluded: 

Instinct does not change, but reason progresses without pause, inan takes advan- 
tage of his own experience and of the experiences of other men. Reason is one of the 
most beautiful faculties of the human mind, and he who does not passionately seek to 
extend his knowledge by that fact alone renounces his greatest privilege. "- 

Seurat, far from renouncing this pri\ilege, had resolved, after examining 
his own experience and that of others, to sum up in clear formulas the princi- 
ples which had inspired his work. He expressed himself not as a painter but as 
a savant; that he had perused the scientific works of Chevreul and Sutter is be- 
trayed by the impeccable logic and precision with which Setirat set down his 
artistic theories. He who had shown himself to be so jealous of his ideas as ex- 
pressed in his works now seemed to feel a certain satisfaction in the unambigu- 
ous formulation of the laws of his aesthetic and technique. He was only too 
willing to explain these laws to his friends, Jules Christophe and Matirice Beati- 
bourg. After Jules Christophe, in an article on Seurat, restated in an unclear 
form theories which the painter had explained to him. Setirat. dissatisfied, sent 
his friend Beaubourga letter dated August 28, [1890]. in which he gave a com- 
plete exposition of his aesthetic:"* 

AESTHETIC 

Art is harmony. Harmony is in the analogy of contrary and in ihe analogy of 
similar elements of tone, lint and line, considered according to their dominants and 
luidcr the influence of light, in gay, calm or sad combinations. 

The contraries are: 

,, Uuminous ^ , , 

I'or lone, a more ' , lor a more dark. 

i clear 

60 







< 



61 



For tint, the complementaries, that is to say a certain red opposed to its comple- 
mentary, and so on (red-g^een; orange-blue; yellow-violet). 

For line, those forming a right angle. 

Gayety of tone is given by the luminous dominant; of tint, by the warm dominant; 
of line, by lines above the horizontal: 



^ 



Calm of tone is the equality of dark and light; of tint, equality of warm and cold; 
calm of line is given by the horizontal. 

Sadness of tone is given by the dark dominant; of tint by the cold dominant; of 
line by descending directions: 



7K 



TECHNIQUE 

Taking for granted the phenomena of the duration of a light-impression on the 
retina — 

Synthesis necessarily follows as a result. The means of expression is the optical mix- 
ture of the tones, the tints (local color and that resulting from illumination by the 
sun, an oil lamp, gas, and so on), that is to say, of lights and their effects (shadows), in 
accordance with the laws of contrast, gradation and irradiation. 

The frame is in the harmony opposed to that of the tones, tints and lines of the 
picture: 







To give more unity to his pictures, Seurat, in his studies for La Grande 
Jatle, had begun to cover the borders of his canvases with a fringe of little 
touches of color, clearly separated from the subject. These, varying in accord- 
ance with the tints near them, softened the otherwise abrupt break between 
the picture and the always white frame. In order to suppress entirely anything 
that might negate the cunningly calculated harmonies in his paintings, he de- 
cided, towards 1 888, to dot the frame itself, and bring it into accord with the 
painting the colors of which would thus be at once prolonged and limited. 
Emile Verhaeren claims that ha\ ing 

thought that at Bayreuth the hall is darkened in order to present the stage dowered 
with light as the single point of attention, this contrast of great lights and shadows 
caused him to adopt dark frames, although now too, as in the past, he observed the 
laws of complementaries.' '¦* 



62 



PRAISE AND DISPRAISE 



The theories which Seurat expressed in his works were not allowed to pass un- 
contested. Seurat's ideas were opposed even by artists and writers who could 
not be characterized as reactionary, some of whom did not hesitate to hail Seu- 
rat's talent. While they admitted being moved by his paintings, by his land- 
scapes in particular, they continued to object to "the pernicious confusion of 
art and science," as Julien Leclerq, friend of Gauguin, put it. They were dis- 
turbed by the evidence in Seurat's compositions of a will to prove, which was 
less apparent in his landscapes. It was not so much the lack of imagination in 
his works that baffled them, as the presence of a cold will to exclude it. As early 
as 1886 Emile Hennequin, devoting a long article to Seurat in La Vie Mo- 
derne, had taken the following position: 

His method is a device like other methods of painting, and on this score he should be 
judged solely for his capacity to represent nature more truly than others have. But, 
strangely enough, for anyone not convinced in advance, the pictures of Monsieur 
Seurat, like those of the artists who follow him, are completely lacking in luminosity. 
In total contrast to what his theories would lead one to expect, his seascapes excel pre- 
cisely because they are grey; but one could hardly imagine anything dustier or more 
lustreless^^^ than his Grande Jatte, which presents promenaders glimpsed in the half- 
shadow cast by a full sun . . . Monsieur Seurat's failure at precisely the point where 
in his own terms it is his duty to go ahead of anyone else, shows clearly that aesthetics 
can expect little from preliminary theorizing, that it has its own laws, which it must 
derive from observation, and not predict on the basis of physical experiments. 

The talent of Monsieur Seurat, and of the painters who follow his example, is 
something else again; but it cannot be said too often that one technique more or less 
contributes little to art, to the beauty of art works, that is, to their capacity to move.^^^ 

While Setirat cotild have answered this criticism by pointing out that the 
too small room in which La Grande Jatte was shown accounted for the seeming 
lack of luminosity of the canvas, which reqtiired being seen from a greater dis- 
tance, an even more vehement attack of J. K. Huysmans, left no room for reply. 
At the start of 1887 this famous critic wrote of the third exhibition of the hide- 
pendants, in which Seurat showed eight paintings and a dozen drawings:"^ 

Last year. Monsieur Seurat exhibited, in addition to La Grajide Jatte, a number of 
really beautiful seascapes, quiet seas under calm skies; these clear canvases, enveloped 

63 



in a grey dust of light, re\eal a very personal yet accinate approach to nature . . . 
The views ol the sea he exhibited this year, the views of Honfieur, in particular, his 
Lighthouse, affirm the very real talent which he has already proved beyond argument. 
These, too, rely on his vision of a nature more drowsy than melancholy, a nature 
which is nonchalantly at ease under wrathless skies, sheltered from the wind . . . 
Strange indeed! This painter of nature whose seascapes can induce tender and mo- 
notonous dreams, becomes superficial and unsuggestive when he paints human figines; 
and it is at this point that the technique he employs — the pianoing of little dots, the 
mesh of tiny stitches, the mosaics of colored points — ensnares him . . . 

Strip his figures of the colored fleas that cover them, underneath you will find 
nothing, no thought, no soid; nothing. Nothingness in bodies whose contours alone 
exist. At the same time in his painting La Grande Jatte the structure of the himian 
figure becomes hard and rigid; everything is immobile and congealed. I very much 
fear that there have been too many techniques, too many systems; there are not 
enough sparks of fire, there is not enough life!''^ 

While Huysmans, the poet, condemned Seurat's technique becatise in his 
opinion it did not make up for lack of fire, thought and spirituality, the paint- 
ers opposed to divisionism ^vere content to condemn the method out of hand, 
along with all methods. Gauguin, who As'as himself partial to theories of color 
and symbols, spoke with scorn of the "little green chemists who pile up tiny 
dots";"* he advised his friend Serusier: "Avoid complementary colors; they 
clash instead of harmonizing," and he even went as far as to say that neo-im- 
pressionism, since it was based on science, would "lead straight to color pho- 
tography."'-" 

Renoir, Monet and Sisley, who had refused to exhibit with Seurat, took an 
equally unambigtious stand against him. Their opposition was purely instinc- 
tive, for none of them had particularly studied the di\'isionist theory. For ex- 
ample, Pissarro, in a conversation with Renoir, was surprised to find that the 
latter based his aversion to these theories on complete ignorance of them. Re- 
noir made no bones about his disinclination to enciunber himself with scien- 
tific ideas, since, as he said: 

There is something more in painting which cannot be explained, which is the essen- 
tial. You approach nature with theories, nature knocks them to the ground . . . The 
trinh is that in painting, as in the other arts, there is not a single method, no matter 
how unimporianl, which can lie put into a formula. '-^ 

Monet, A\hom Fcneon accused of "brilliant vulgarity," continued to investi- 
gate natiuc without reliance on a theory he foimd obsessive, and he dismissed 
the whole (juestion with this remark: "One cannot make pictmes with doc- 
trines — methods change, but art remains the same."'" Sisley, for his part, re- 

64 



plied with some heat to a critic who had used the word point illisi in connection 
with his technique of little comma-like strokes: 

To say of a painter that he is a pointilUsl is not to evaluate him, but to state a fact: 
pointillisrn being a method, one might ahnost say a mechanical method, so well known 
that it should be impossible to mistake it, but insofar as my work is concerned, the 
description is false.^-^ 

If Seurat seldom answered attacks of this kind, it was becatise Feneon froin 
the beginning had taken tip the task of refuting them. As early as 1886 he had 
written of Seurat and his friends: 

These painters are accused of subordinating art to science. They only employ scien- 
tific data to govern and perfect the edtication of their eyes and to control the exact- 
ness of their vision . . . But if Monsieur X spent an eternity studying treatises on 
optics he would never paint La Grande Jatte . . . The truth is that the neo-impres- 
sionist method demands an exceptionally delicate eye: its dangerous strictness will 
frighten off all the clever fellows who mask their visual incapacity beneath digital 
subtleties. This type of painting is accessible only to painters^-* 

But even so loyal a friend as Feneon could not hide his disapproval when in 
1888 at the Salon des Independants,^-^ Seurat and Dubois-Pillet introduced col- 
ored frames. Camille Pissarro and Feneon were much opposed to this innova- 
tion, and the latter wrote in his review of the exhibition: 

The canvas [of Dubois-Pillet] is encased in an oval frame circled with bold violet 
variations. The frame is no longer neutral, it exists in its own right. Is it colored to 
give more emphasis to the painting, or vice-versa? A question somewhat damaging to 
this multichromatic renovation of less systematic efforts already old with Gauguin 
and Mary Cassatt. What Monsieur Seurat has done is, with some qualifications, more 
allowable. The advantages of the white frame are all too evident. So Monsieur Seurat, 
instead of adopting the colored frame, simply notes on the white one the reactions of 
nearby colors. So far so good. But sometimes, the frame, which up to this point has 
remained philosophically white and abstract, is influenced by the picture, and Seurat 
thinks of it as circumscribing the landscape iji reality, and pursuing the logic of this 
worthless hypothesis, he dots it orange or blue in accordance with whether the sun 
is behind or before the observer, that is, with whether the frame is in the light or in 
the shadow; and the frame, while it remains white, accjuires, as in the system of Mon- 
sieur Dubois-Pillet, an absurd reality. ^-'^ 

Praise and criticism, however, had almost no effect on the incessant labor of 
Seurat. "To look at life, to have sensations and to arrange theiu, is enough of 
joy and torment, "^"^ he thought with his friend, Henri-Edmond Cross. Despite 
the objections of his seniors to introducing science into art, for him, as Ver- 

65 



haeren points out. his works were truly significant only insofar as they proved 
a la^\' or concept, only insofar as they were a conquest of the unknown.^-* 

While Seiuat's landscapes were respected e\'en by his adversaries, he was 
met with outright ridicule, insensitiveness and stupidity when he exhibited a 
large canvas. To the objections of the critics who held that the stumbling block 
to his pointillist method would be the human figure, Seurat replied with his 
large canvas Les Poseiises. He sent this painting, the fruit of more than a year's 
^s-ork. to the Salon des Independayits of 1888, at which for the first time he did 
not exhibit any landscapes. Les Poseiises only multiplied the barbs aimed at 
him. This description of it appeared, for example, in L'Echo du Nord: 

A studio with three nude women who are painted in the pointillist manner, and who 
expose lamentable rachitic skeletons smeared with all the colors of the rainbow.^-' 

And an American critic sent his newspaper this comment: 

Mr. Seurat. a hardened offender, contributes ten startling compositions, the least in- 
coherent of which is perhaps a trio of Poseiises innocent of raiment — vuiless a pair of 
stockings coiuits as raiment. '¦¦*" 

It Avas Paul Adam ^vho luidertook to defend Seiuat's new Avork. He -^note: 

Les Poseiises achieves perfection. Three nude women, one standing, two others seated 
one at each side, before the gray wall of the studio, which is suddenly cut at an angle 
by La Grande Jatte, that much commented on work. Now the figures in rigid domini- 
cal postures are the same size as the models. One of the models can be discovered in 
La Grande Jatte fidly dressed and escorted by a superb gentleman; she passes through 
the deep perspective of the leafy island which the gray perspecti\e of the studio pro- 
longs. Here are beings in all their natural simplicity, the smiling feminine secrets on 
their lips, beings with elegant cmves, breasts slender as those of yoiuig girls, with 
pearled and delicate skins. And here are beings in holiday attire, stiff and stilted, 
solemn in the soft luxuriance of summer; their bearing and presence like that of 
Egyptians filing in pious procession before steles or sarcophagi. 

The svnthesis of these two types of life sealed by the painter's eye, is achieved with 
a magnificent harmony of tones in which the three splendors of woman's body shine. 
In these models the flesh keeps its roundness, the red or white tints, and the shadows 
sleeping in the hollows of the form. Even more commanding than the iniderstanding 
of dermal tones, is the unity of structure, the unity of each exactly proportioned fig- 
ure, encased in its flesh. These lithe, supple, agile figures, one feels even when seeing 
them in repose, are ready to live, to leap, to laugh, to will.'^i 

When in 1889 Seurat sent this canvas with eight landscapes and three draw- 
ings to the exhibition of the J'ingt in Brussels, his paintings Avere no longer the 
main targets of the ignorant public. This time it was the work of Gauguin — 
who had been invited along with Pissarro, Luce, Cross and Monet — which re- 

66 



ceived the guffaws. Next to "the scientific impressionism of Seiirat, Gauguin 
represented barbarism, revokuion, fever," says Maurice Denis, and he explains 
that Gauguin's new formula consisted of "no longer reproducing nature and 
life by approximate forms or improvisations of trompe-VoeiJ, but on the con- 
trary, by reproducing his dreams and emotions, symbolizing them by forms and 
harmonious colors. ""- 

Seurat's Poseuses and one of his drawings found a prospective buyer. Oc- 
tave Maus, president of the Vingf, wrote to the artist to determine the price of 
his canvas, and Seurat replied to him in a letter dated February 17, 1889: 

I should have Hked to know the collector's name. 1 would be satisfied if you coidd get 
60 francs for my drawing. As for my Poseuses, I find it hard to set a price. I calculate 
that it cost me 7 francs a day for one year: you see where that leads. To sum up, let 
me add that the personality of the collector might make up the difference between his 
price and mine.'^^ 

Despite these terms, the collector coidd not come to a decision. Seinat went 
again to Brussels to appear at a banquet tendered by the Vingt and brought 
back his large painting, for which he had executed some precious studies and 
replicas, including three panels, one for each of the three models. All in all. 
there were hardly more than a dozen such studies. After La Grande Jatte, Seu- 
rat never again made a great number of drawings and paintings when prepar- 
ing for a large canvas. 

Brought back to Paris by the painter, Les Posenses had to drowse beside La 
Grande Jatte in Seurat's new studio — also his last — on the passage de I'Elysee 
des Beaux-Arts. The exhibition in Brussels was to be the last time when a work 
of Setirat would hang beside new works of Pissarro. After this exhibition the 
old master deserted his young friends, not, however, without explaining his 
reasons for doing so. And of all the artists who disagreed with Seurat, Camille 
Pissarro, who from the first had been his adherent, expressed himself with per- 
haps the most severity. It is true that since 1887 Pissarro had begun to mitigate 
the rigid execution of divisionism, but he had not wished to abandon the main 
features of the method. However, he soon recognized, as with his usual frank- 
ness he admitted, that he had been deluding himself in following these young 
innovators, since his paintings no longer fully satisfied him.^"* For Pissarro a 
theory was not good in itself. It was good if it enabled him to get results; the 
moment these did not meet his exactions, no reasoning, no scientific proofs 
could keep him from abandoning a theory and seeking salvation elsewhere. 

67 



Pissarro wrote Henri Vandevelde: 

I believe that it is my duty to write you frankly and tell you how I now regard the at- 
tempt I made to be a systematic di\ isionist. following our friend Scurat. Ha\ ing tried 
this theory for four years and having now abandoned it, not without painful and ob- 
stinate struggles to regain what I had lost and not to lose what I had learned, I can 
no longer consider myself one of the neo-impressionists who abandon movement and 
life for a diametrically opposed aesthetic which, perhaps, is the right thing for the 
man with the right temperament but is not right for me, anxious as I am to avoid all 
narrow, so-called scientific theories. Having found after many attempts (I speak for 
myself), having found that it was impossible to be true to my sensations and conse- 
quently to render life and movement, impossible to be faithful to the so random and 
so admirable effects of nature, impossible to give an individual character to my draw- 
ing, I had to give up. And none too soon!"^ 

After this, Pissarro was to re-work totally a good many of the paintings he 
had executed in Seurat's manner. 




42. G. Sii'RAi: Salliinl);Mi(]iics. llic l);m(cr ;in(I the Cashier, alioul 
1886. 

68 



THE LAST WORKS 



In the spring of 1889 Seurat left Paris for Le Crotoy, to paint some of those sea- 
scapes which prompted his friend Charles Angrand to say in a letter to Cross, 
"He is the first to render the feeling which the sea inspires on a calm day." The 
year before Seurat had brought back from his sojourn at Port-en-Bessin several 
of those views of the sea which poets found poetical, which painters admired 
for their unexampled mastery and in which even hostile critics saw a serene 
and moving beauty. 

Seurat explained to Emile Verhaeren that landscapes were his summer's 
work, undertaken regularly each year at the seashore or just outside Paris, 
while each winter he completed a large canvas, one representing much research 
and possibly some discoveries. Verhaeren wanted to call these winter paintings 
canvases with a thesis, but Setirat disapproved and simply reiterated that dur- 
ing the summer his objective was "to wash the studio light from his eyes and to 
transcribe more exactly the vivid outdoor clarity in all its nuance.""*' 

In the aiutimn of 1889, Seurat sent the landscapes done at Port-en-Bessin 
and Le Crotoy to the exhibition of the Independants,^^' and Camille Pissarro, 
in a letter to his son, Lucien, wrote: 

At first view the neo-impressionists appeared to me to be barren, mean, colorless, par- 
ticularly Seurat and Signac. But after a while I regarded them more favorably, al- 
though there is something stilted in their work which I feel is disagreeable.'^* 

The accusation "stilted" was often hurled at Setirat's large compositions 
and particularly at his Jenne femme se poudrayit which the artist began in 
1889. This is a painting — not until the artist's death was this known to his 
most intimate friends — of Setirat's mistress, Madeleine Knobloch. The picttire 
presents a robtist yotnig woman of southern beauty preparing her make-up at 
an old-fashioned dressing table. Her gesture and bearing have that strange 
solemnity which is so often found in the works of Setirat. The severe lines of 
her chemise emphasize the contrast between the dark corset and the clear 

69 




43- G. Sf.urat: The Harbor of Gravelines, 1890. 



plump skin, while the background lights up like an aureole about her dark 
hair. Originally the painting showed Seurat's own head reflected in a mirror 
hanging on the wall — the only self-portrait the artist ever made; one of his 
friends, not knowing the intimate relations of the artist and his model, re- 
marked to Seurat that his image in the painting might give rise to objection- 
able pleasantries. Whereupon Seurat replaced his image with a flower-pot."^ 
The painting was shown at the exhibition of the Independants in 1890, along 
with Le Cliahut, and it was against this last composition rather than La jeune 
femme se poiidraiil, that the critics leveled their fire.'*" Le Saliit Public found 
that Le Chahnt "deals with the choreographic sports which the clients of 
L'Elysee-Montinartre go in for. You begin to think you are looking at the col- 
ored rug patterns which housekeepers use for slippers.""' 

While La Parade, exhibited in 1 888, presents a row of cornet and trombone 
players in somber formation under the unreal evening lights of a fair and is 
dominated by a monotony of horizontals and colors without brilliance, Le 
Chahut (bought by Gustave Kahn) conceals inider its \'erticals and diagonals 



70 




44- G. Seurat: The Drawbridge, about li 



an extremely complicated machinery of lines. Robert Rey has shown how rig- 
orous and mathematically precise is the arrangement of these straight lines and 
curves. It would appear, from his analysis, that the gold section played an im- 
portant role in this composition and that here too the artist observed one of the 
principles of Delacroix: 

If you add to a composition already interesting because of its subject, an ordering of 
the lines that will augment the impression, a chiaroscuro that strikes the imagination 
and a color adapted to the character, you get the harmony and its proper combina- 
tions in a unique song . . .'^*- 

Seurat's Le Cirque was more freely and more directly conceived. Seurat 
told his friend. Cross, that his first view of an ensemble was invariably in terms 
of masses and the interplay of valtxes. The ensemble in Le Cirque is presented 
without the geometric scaffolding so important structurally in Le Chahut. 
Without abandoning his characteristic ideas or qualities, Seurat, in Le Cirque, 
achieved an exceptionally happy effect because the figures in this painting, 
caught in their natural setting, do not appear to have been subordinated to a 

71 



schematic design. While he continued to favor the profile, fidl-face or back 
view in presenting his figures, arranging the planes of his landscapes in hori- 
zontal rows, Seinat introduced into his compositions diagonals which create a 
new sensation of space and rhythm. Likewise, while maintaining his character- 
istic repetitions of lines and colors, he wove these echoes of forms into more 
complex and freer designs. After the pure horizontals of La Parade came the 
pyramid-like organizations of Le Chahut and Le Cirque. This last painting, 
^\•hich Seurat did not consider a finished work but which he felt Avas complete 
enough to be exhibited,^" shows a new element, an element which might be 
called dynamic, in his art. 

In 1890 the sea again attracted Seurat in the summer months. Once more 
the sun on the piers, the solitary lighthouses, the boats with clear sails, called to 
him, who so well transcribed their poetic isolation. At Grandcamp in 1885 and 
Honfleur in 1886, at Port-en-Bessin in 1888 and Le Crotoy the following year, 
Seurat went to Gravelines in 1 890 to spy on the strange atmospheres that float 
between land and sea: fogs, winds, twilights and salt air. The canvases he 
brought back had to wait in the studio until the completion of Le Cirque in or- 
der to appear ^vith it at the exhibition of the Ludependauts. That year Seurat 
was again invited to shoA\' with the Vingt in Brussels. Among others invited 
were Pissarro, Gauguin, Guillaumin, Sisley and Cheret. A retrospective show 
was devoted to van Gogh, who had committed suicide in the summer of 1890. 

Early in 1891, on the 3rd of February to be exact, Seiuat spent an evening 
with many of the men for whom the epoch is remembered. At a banquet given 
in honor of Moreas, a banquet which, presided over by Mallarme. was a sort of 
apotheosis of symbolism, Seurat rubbed elbows with Anatole France, Andre 
Gide, Jules Renard, Octave Mirbeau, Maurice Barres, Henri de Regnier, Fe- 
lix Feneon, Paul Gauguin, Odilon Redon, Paul Signac and many others. Some 
of the guests were already famous; for some, fame was waiting. Among these 
last was Georges Seurat. Only a year before Jides Christophe had devoted an 
issue of the popular Hommes d'Aujourd'hiii series to Seiuat. in \\hich he re- 
lated the painter's life, described his works and simimed up Seinat's theories. 
Painters and writers in Seurat's circle imanimously hailed his genius and ad- 
mired his art. They knew the role which this man. hardly thirty-one years old, 
had played; they knew that his name was to be identified w'nh a new vision; 
and they divined the place he was destined to occupy in the history of art. 

In the early part of March 1891 Seurat helped arrange the exhibition of the 

72 




45- G. Seurat: Study for "Le Cirque," 1890. 



Independajjts, which was again held at the Pavilion de la Ville de Paris, on the 
Champs-Elysees, and which devoted space to works of van Gogh and also of 
Dubois-Pillet, who had died a short time before. Seurat, as usual, inspected the 
entries and supervised the hanging of the paintings. He showed at this Salon 
Le Cirque and four views of the Chanel de Gravelines. He hardly noticed an 
ordinary sore throat which followed a cold. The opening of the exhibition was 
set for March lo. A sudden fever sent Seurat to bed at his mother's place on the 
boulevard Magenta. He died in a few days. His infant son, who had contracted 
his illness, followed him to the grave. 

In his short period of agony Seurat may have recalled the words of Dela- 
croix, which he had once carefully copied: 

Sterility is not only a misfortune for art, but a blemish on the talent of the artist. All 
the work of a man whose resources are meager must necessarily bear the mark of fa- 
tigue. A school can be created only by presenting great and numerous works as 
models.^** 



73 



During his ten years of artistic activity, Seurat had been abundantly crea- 
tive. He had produced great works and propagated ideas which will withstand 
time and fate. But when he died on March 19. 1891. only his intimate friends 
understood humanity's loss. And Jules Christophe exclaimed sadly: 

A sudden stupid sickness carried him off in a few hours when he was about to tri- 
umph: f curse providence and death!'** 

On April 1 , 1891 , Camille Pissarro wrote from Paris to his son Lucien: "Yes- 
terday I went to Seurat's funeral. I saw Signac who was much affected by this 
great misfortune. I belief you are right, pointillism is finished, but I think it 
will give rise to other effects which later will have great artistic significance. 
Seurat really brought something." 



74 



NOTES 



1. See letter of Aman-Jean cited by Coquiot: 
Seurat, p. 22. 

2. Ibid., pp. 27 and 29. 

3. The archives of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts 
show that Seurat entered in February 1878. Of 
the 80 best students admitted to the class in 
painting on March 19, 1878, Seurat was rated 
67th. At the end of the summer semester he 
dropped to 73rd on the list. However, on the re- 
port for March 18, 1879, Seurat occupies the 47th 
place. See R. Rey, La Renaissance du sentiment 
classique, p. 101. 

4. Ch. Blanc: Grammaire des arts du dessin — 
translated by K. Newell Doggett: The Grammar 
of Painting and Engraving, New York, 1874, 
p. 164. 

5. The lyrical descriptions of boats found in 
one of Seurat's notebooks and published by 
Coquiot, op. cit., pp. 122-125, are not, according 
to F^n^on, the painter's own impressions, but 
were copied by him from some publication. 

6. R. Marx in Le Progres Artistique, June 15, 
1883. 

7. Baudelaire: L'CEuvre et la vie d'Eugene 
Delacroix. Varietes critiques. III. 

8. Ch. Blanc, op. cit., pp. 146, 156 and 162. 

9. Notes inedites de Seurat sur Delacroix, Bul- 
letin de la Vie Artistique, April, 1922. 

10. G. Kahn in L'Art Moderne, April 5, 1891. 

11. Chevreul: La Loi du contraste simultane 
des couleurs — translated by Charles Martel: The 
Principles of Harmony and Contrast of Colors, 
London 1855, second edition. Statement 78. 

12. Signac in Encyclopedic Fraii^aise, vol. 
XVI, chap. II. 

13. R. Marx in Le Voltaire, May 16, 1884. 

14. J. E. Blanche, three years younger than 
Seurat, who studied painting under Gervex and 
at the Academic Julian, relates that at that time 
"they used to go and make sketches near the 
fortifications outside Paris, near the factories of 
Suresnes, and on the island of La Grande Jatte." 
See J. E. Blanche: De Gauguin a la revue negre, 
P-37- 



15. Delacroix, cited by Signac: D'Eugene De- 
lacroix au Neo-impressionnisme, chap. I. 

16. Exhibition of Independent Artists, 1884, 
authorized by the Director of Fine Arts of Paris, 
B. Baracks, Cour des Tuileries, from May 15 to 
July 1. 

17. Signac: Le Neo-impressionnisme, docu- 
ments. 

18. de Katow in Gil Bias, May 17, 1884. 

19. Claretie in Le Temps, May, 1884. 

20. Alexis in Cri du Peuple, May, 1884. 

21. E. Jacques in LTntransigeant, May 24, 
1884. 

22. R. Marx in Le Voltaire, May 16, 1884. 

23. Signac, op. cit., chap. IV. 

24. Letter of Signac to Monet quoted by Gef- 
froy: Claude Monet, vol. I, p. 175. 

25. GefFroy, op. cit., vol. II, p. 166; see also 
vol. I, p. 215. 

26. Signac, op. cit., chap. II. 

27. Ibid. 

28. Feneon in L'Art Moderne, Sept. 19, 1886. 
See the application to the Municipal Council of 
July 2, 1885, reproduced by Coquiot, op. cit., pp. 
142-148. Also Coquiot's Les Independants, pp. 
9-10. 

29. R. Marx in Le Voltaire, December 10, 

1884. 

30. Letter of C. Pissarro to P. Durand-Ruel, 
November 6, 1886, cited by L. Venturi: Les Ar- 
chives de I'Impressionnisme, vol. II, p. 24. 

31. Signac, op. cit., chap. III. 

32. See D. Catton Rich: Seurat and the Evolu- 
tion of "La Grande Jatte." 

33. Signac, op. cit., chap. III. 

34. Signac in Encyclopedic Fran^aise, vol. 
XVI, chap. II. 

35. See the letter of Angrand cited by Coquiot, 
op. cit., p. 40. 



75 



36. Signac. op. cit.. chap. I. See the color scales 
in A. Pope: The Painter's Terms, plates II-V. 

37. Letter of .\ngrand cited by Coquiot, op. 
cit., p. 39. 

38. Letter of Beaubourg cited by Coquiot, op. 
cit., p. 45. The complete quotation reads: "picked 
up stones and split his canvases." But as Seurat 
hardly ever painted on canvas on the island of 
La Grande Jatte, Feneon is rightly skeptical of 
this anecdote. 

39. Letter of Angrand cited by Coquiot, op. 
cit., p. 41. 

40. Signac in Encyclopedie Fran^aise, vol. 
XVL chap. IL This remark should perhaps be 
understood less as an expression of Seurat's real 
attitude, than as a sally intended to put a stop to 
literary interpretations of his pictures. All the 
artist's later work shows that he could "paint 
only what he saw before him," as he said himself, 
see G. Kahn, Lcs Dessins de Seurat, Introduc- 
tion. 

41. Unpublished letter of Pissarro to his son 
Lucien, March, 1886. 

42. These landscapes were: Le Bee du Hoc 
(Grandcamp), Le Fort Samson, La Seine a Cour- 
bevoie, Le Fort Lamsac. 

43. G. Moore: Confessions of a Young Man, 
p. 28. 

44. Ibid, pp. 28-29. 

45. Signac: Le Neo-irnfnessionnisme, docu- 
ments. 

46. Notice in Le Figaro, May 16, 1886. 

47. Verhaeren: Sensations, p. 196. 

48. G. Moore: Modern Painting, new edition, 
1898, p. 89. 

49. Fouquier in Vingtieme Siecle, May 16, 
1886. 

50. Mirbeau in La France, May 21, 1886. 

51. Hennequin in La Vie Moderne, June, 
1886. 

52. Wyzewa in La Revue Indel)endante,Nov.- 
Dec. 1886. 

53. F(^neon wrote the author: "I had ijccn in 
Paris for three years, I had been to all the mu- 
seums, to Durand-Ruel's gallery and to all the 
last exhibitions of the old guard impressionists, 
when Seurat's art was revealed to me by Unc liai- 
gnade (Asnieres), which I saw in the canteen of 
the Salon des .Artistes Indcjjendants. Alihougii I 
did not connnit myself in writing, I then com- 
pletely realized the importance of this painting; 
the masterpieces wiiicli were the logical conse- 
quences of it followed without liringing me again 
the spice of surprise. I tliink it was al the famous 
'F.igluh Exhibition of Paintings' in ihe rue I.af- 
fitte that I first saw and iiecame atxjuainlcd Avith 
Seurat and the painters he induenced. " 



54. Feneon: Les Imf)ressionnistes en 1886. 

55. See G. Kahn, Les Dessins de Seurat, Intro- 
duction. 

56. Ibid. 

57. Quotation from R. de Gourmont in the 
catalogue of the Cinqunnlrnaire du Symbolisme 
at the Bii)liothcque Nationale. Paris, 1936, p. 1 15. 

58. Wilenski asserts in his book: Modern 
French Painters (p. 85): "The critic Felix Fe- 
neon. then twenty-two. saw what Seurat was 
after and foimded La Revue Independante to 
help the new Classical Renaissance." The fact is 
that the founding of La Revue Independante — 
the first issue appeared in May 1884, edited by 
Georges Chevrier and Felix Feneon — had no 
connection with Scmat whom Feneon did not 
write about until 1886 (see note 53), and then 
not in La Revue Indefjendaute but in La J'ogue. 
The collaijorators to La Revue Indefyendante 
were recruited, according to Feneon, from "the 
declining naturalists and the rising symbolists." 
The first articles on Seurat published in La 
Revue Independante appeared in 1886 and 1887. 
written by Wyzewa and Huysmans, and were 
clearly antagonistic to divisionism. The facts 
about La Revue Independante and La Vogue 
can be found in the catalogue of the Symliolist 
Exhibition, op. cit., pp. 53-54. 

59. Charles Henry, who was the same age as 
Seurat. had published at twenty-five a remark- 
able theoretical work on rhythm and measure. 

60. P. Alexis in Cri du PeufAe, .April 14, 1888. 

61. Fenton in Le Symboliste, 1886. 

62. That very year Feneon also published, in 
collaboration with Paul .Adam, Jean Moreas and 
Oscar M(5t(^nier a Petit lioltin des lettres et des 
arts [Who's ]Vho in Literature and Art], issued 
anonymously. This book contains remarks about 
Huysmans. Klonet, Pissarro. Redon. Renoir. V'er- 
laine, Zola and so on. The comment on Seurat 
reads: "He brushes flowing waters, plastic grasses 
and the air which synthesizes all this." 

63. .According to R. Rey: La Renaissance du 
sentiment classique, p. 122. the term "neo- 
impressionnisme" was first used by .\rs^ne .Alex- 
andre in his review of F('-neon's brochine which 
appeared in Decemixr i88(). But jjrior to this the 
term had alreadv i^een employed i)v Feneon in 
an article in L'Arl Modrrnr, .Sept. 19. i88fi. 
There is little douin that the term was first used 
i)v Feneon who may have gotten it from the 
painters themselves. 

64. Signac, op. cit.. ciia]:). III. 

65. Unsigned article in The Xew York Daily 
Tribune, Apr'i] 11, i88(). 

()(). DurandRuel showed works by Millet, 
Manet. Monet. Renoir. Sislev. Pissarro. Degas, 
Whistler. Morisot. Boudin, (iuillaumin. For.iin. 
and ,so on. 



76 



67. p. Durand-Ruel, Memoires, published by 
L. Venturi, op. cit., vol. II, p. 216. 

68. Unsigned article in The Critic, New York, 
April 17, 1886. Another anonymous article in 
Art Age, April 1886, said: "The impressionists 
are highly trained and fully developed techni- 
cists who have experienced reactionary desires in 
favor of truth and simplicity, as they understand 
those attributes." 

69. Unsigned article in The Critic, April 17, 
1886. The author of this article went as far as to 
say: "New York has never seen a more interesting 
exhibition than this." On the other hand the 
Sun was as hostile as the French papers had been: 
"The great master, from his own point of view, 
must surely be Seurat whose monstrous picture 
of The Bathers [La Baignade] consumes so large 
a part of Gallery D. This is a picture conceived in 
a coarse, vulgar, and commonplace mind, the 
work of a man seeking distinction by the vulgar 
qualification and expedient of size. It is bad from 
every point of view, including his own." (April 
11, 1886.) 

It is interesting to note that following this ex- 
hibition a certain Celen Sabbrin published a 
brochure entitled: "Science and Philosophy in 
Art" (Philadelphia, 1886). This study is how- 
ever principally devoted to the works of Monet 
and does not even mention Seurat. 

70. As early as April 26 the New York Daily 
Tribune announced that 7 to 8 pictures had been 
sold. 

71. At the second exhibition of the Indepen- 
dants (August 21-Sept. 21, 1886) Seurat, 110 
Boulevard Magenta, was represented by: Un di- 
manche apres-midi a Vile de La Grande Jatte; Le 
Bee du Hoc {Grandcamp); La Rade de Grand- 
camp; La Seine a Courbevoie: Coin d'un bassin a 
Honfleur; Grandcamp (soir); La Luzerne {St. 
Denis); Bateaux {Courbevoie), croqueton; Bords 
de Seine, croqueton. 

72. Notice in Le Figaro, May 16, 1886. 

73. Unpublished letter of C. Pissarro to his 
son Lucien. 

74. Feneon in L'Art Moderne, Sept. 19, 1886. 

75. Ibid. 

76. Seurat exhibited in Nantes Le Phare et 
I'Hospice a Honfleur and La Greve du Bas 
Butin. 

77. Tyrtee in Le Moniteur des Arts, February 
18, 1887. 

78. Notice in Le Matin, February 7, 1887. 

79. Verhaeren in La Vie Moderne, February 
26, 1887. Le Bee du Hoc was sold in Brussels for 
300 francs. This was the first painting Seurat 
sold. It seems that exactly one year later, in 
March 1888, Theo van Gogh either purchased a 
painting of Seurat or exchanged some painting 



for one of his canvases. (Van Gogh's letters to his 
brother, 468.) 

80. Gauguin did a landscape of Pont-Aven 
and a still life which he ironically called Ripi- 
point (see reproducticjn 34) in the pointillist 
manner. These were hung in the lobby of the 
inn at Le Pouldu. Ripipoint was much admired, 
and even inspired verses. See Ch. Chasse: Gau- 
guin et le groupe de Pont-Aven, p. 39. 

8i. Van Gogh's letter to his brother, number 
500. Seurat said of van Gogh in a letter to Beau- 
bourg, August 28, [1890] (quoted by R. Rey, op. 
cit.): "In 1887 I spoke to him for the first time in 
a cheap restaurant near La Fourche, Avenue de 
Clichy, now closed. An immense skylighted hall 
was decorated with his canvases. He exhibited 
with the Independants in 1888, 1889, 1890." Ac- 
cording to van Gogh himself, he paid a visit to 
Seurat's studio to "see his beautiful great can- 
vases" (letter 553). In 1888 van Gogh wrote to his 
brother from Aries: "Painting as it is now prom- 
ises to become more subtle — more like music 
and less like sculpture — and above all it prom- 
ises color. If only it keeps this promise. ... As 
for stippling and making haloes and other things, 
I think they are real discoveries, but we must see 
to it already that this technique does not become 
a universal dogma any more than any other. 
That is another reason why Seurat's Grande Jatte 
. . . will become in time still more individual 
and still more original" (letter 528). 

82. Verhaeren: Sensations, p. 201. 

83. Information given by Paul Signac. 

84. Letter of C. Pissarro to P. Durand-Ruel, 
Nov. 6, 1886, published by L. Venturi, op. cit., 
vol. II, p. 24. 

85. G. Lecomte: Camille Pissarro, Les Hom- 
mes d'Aujourd'hui, Number 366, 1890. 

86. See Angrand's letter quoted by Coquiot, 
op. cit., p. 44. 

87. Ibid. 

88. Letter from Feneon to the author. 

89. Verhaeren: Sensations, p. 200. 

90. G. Kahn in L'Art Moderne, April 5, 1891. 

91. Information given by Paul Signac. 

92. See G. Kahn in Mercure de France, May 
1924. 

93. See Verhaeren: Sensations, p. 200. 

94. Aman-Jean quoted by Coquiot, op. cit., 
p. 25; Cousturier, see G. Kahn in Mercure de 
France, May 1924; Carabin quoted by Coquiot, 
op. cit., p. 48; Kahn, Mercure de France, May 
1924; Wyzewa, L'Art dans des Deux Mondes, 
April 18, 1891; Degas, see G. Kahn in Mercure de 
France, May 1924; Signac quoted by Coquiot, op. 
cit., p. 30: Pissarro, unpublished letter to his son 
Lucien, May 15, 1887. 



77 



Asked about these varying descriptions of 
Seurat, Fcncon wrote the author: "Henri de 
Regnier, in his liook of poems, J'cstigia Flam- 
tiiae, has, in my opinion, given the most adequate 
portrait of Seiirat. I don't see what could he 
added to it." This is the poem: 

Semat, une amc ardeiite et haute ctait en vous . . . 
Je me soiiviens. \ous clie/ grave, caliiie et doux 
Tacituriie. sachant tout ce (]ue la parole 
Gaspille de nous-meines en sa rumeur frivole. 
\'ous ecoutie/ sans repondre. silcncieux 
D'un silence voulu que denientaicnt vos yeux 
Mais si votre art etait sujet de la querelle 
Vn Eclair animait votre regard rebelle. 
Car vous avie/ en vous, con^ue avec lenteur, 
Seurat, votre ol)stination de no\ateur 
.'Vuprc's de quoi rien ne prdvaut et rien n'existe, 
Cette obstination qui fait le grand artiste. 

95. L. Cousturier: Seurat, p. 8. 

96. G. Kahn: Les Dessins de Seurat, Introduc- 
tion. 

97. Ibid. 

98. Unpublished letter of Signac to Fcneon. 

99. G. Kahn in La Vie Moderne, April 5, 1891. 

100. See G. Kahn: Les DessiTis de Seurat, In- 
troduction. 

101. Ibid. 

102. F{5n^on: Les Impressionnistes en 1886. 

103. P. Adam in La Vie Moderne, April 15, 

1888. 

104. Signac in Encyclopedic Fran^aise, vol. 
XVI, chap. II. 

105. Letter of Gauguin to Morice, April 1903, 
quoted by Ch. Morice: Paul Gauguin, p. 132. 

106. Letter of Cezanne to Zola, November 27, 
1884, published in Paul Cezanne, Letters, p. 173. 

107. "The Chromatic Circle giving all the 
Complementaries and Harmonies of Colors" and 
"The Aesthetic Table, in Accordance with which 
all Forms may be studied and perfected." 

io8. D. Sutter, Les Phenomenes de la vision. 
Six articles published in 1880 in L'Art. 

109. See G. Kahn: Les Dessins de Seurat, In- 
troduction. 

1 10. D. Sutter, op. cit., XCIX. 

111. D. Sutter, op. cit., V, XIV, XXVIII, 
XXXIX, XL, XLIX, L, LXXIII, LXXIV, 
LXXVIII, LXXIX, LXXX, LXXXI, LXXXIX, 
XC, CXXIV, CLXVII. 

112. D. Sutter, op. cit. 

113. Letter of Seurat to Beaubourg, August 
28 [1890], published by R. Rey, op. cit. 

114. Verhaercn: Sensations, p. 199. 

115. It may be interesting to note here what 
J. E. Blanche (op. cit., p. 37) wrote about Seurat's 



colors: "Many of Seurat's canvases are faded, are 
already a dirty grey, the color harmonies being 
lost. La Baignade has lost much of its light and 
resonance." 

1 16. Hennec|uin in La J'ie Moderne, Sept. 1 1, 
1886. This article ccjiicludes as follows: "When 
Monsieur Seurat employs his method to paint 
seascapes of Normandy, especially when he de- 
scribes the coming of evening on a grey day, as in 
that marxellous canvas Grandcamj), he is an ex- 
cellent painter. But when he tries to represent 
the full sun and moving figures as in La Grande 
Jatte, his failure is evident, not only in the lack 
of light, but in the even greater lack of life in 
figures whose outlines have been painfully col- 
ored with little dots as in a tapestry. These 
painted tapestries are as unpleasant as real tapes- 
tries. . . . These painters [Seurat, Signac, etc.] 
try to render reality, modifying it in a style based 
not on forms but on colors. However they fail 
to see truly as a result of trying to see things ob- 
jectively as the eye receives them: that is to say 
that ruining the whole education of this organ, 
all the treasured experiences stored in this sense 
which today enable our minds to perceive the 
forms of things in truer images than those fur- 
nished by the eye alone. These painters try to 
render objects in colored dots without any other 
contours than the vague boundaries they project 
on the retina; so that in limiting the sensibility 
of the eye to colored reactions, habituating them- 
selves to perceiving colored shadows at will, to 
decomposing tones, to observing the play of com- 
plementaries, they end up by no longer feeling 
pure tones, they disrupt them in their paintings 
and thus rob their works of light. Both by their 
backwardness in respect to forms and their pro- 
gressiveness in respect to colors, they give an in- 
exact picture of the image the human race has of 
nature." 

117. Seurat, i28bis Boulevard de Clichy, sent 
to the third exhibition of the Independants 
(March 26-May 3, 1887) the following works: Le 
Phare et I'Hospice a Honfleur (belonging to 
Emile Verhaeren), La Greve du Bas Butin, Em- 
bouchure de la Seine, Le Pont de Courbevoie 
(belonging to A. Alexandre), Entree du port 
d'Honfleur (belonging to F. F^n^on), La "Ma- 
ria" a Honfleur, Bout de la jetee d'Honfleur, 
Poseuse (debout), Eden Concert, drawing, twelve 
sketches. 

118. Huysmans in La Revue Independante, 
April 1887. 

1 19. Letter of Gauguin to his wife, quoted by 
Dorsenne: La Vie sentimentale de Paul Gauguin, 
p. 87. 

120. Gauguin: Racontars d'un rapin, pub- 
lished by Rotonchamp: Paul Gauguin, p. 240. 
Daniel de Monfreid tells that Gauguin had also 
warned \ an Gogh against all systems of painting: 
against division of tones, optical mixture of 
colors and so on. See Ch. Chass(^, op. cit., p. 38. 



78 



121. Renoir to Vollard. See Vollard: En ecou- 
tant Cezanne, Degas, Renoir, p. 211. 

122. Monet to F. Fels, quoted by J. E. Blanche, 
op. cit., p. 25. To these words Monet however 
added a remark truly surprising coming from an 
impressionist and which one would expect rather 
from a painter like Seurat: "One is not an artist 
if one does not carry the picture to be painted 
in the imagination before executing it, and if 
one was not entirely certain of one's craft, of 
one's composition. ..." 

123. Unpublished letter of Sisley (probably to 
Bergerat), April 21, 1898. 

124. Feneon in L'Art Moderne, Sept. 19, 1886. 

125. Seurat exhibited at the fourth Salon of 
the Independants (March 22-May 3, 1888) two 
canvases and eight drawings: Les Poseuses, Pa- 
rade de Cirque, and Au Concert Europeen, A la 
Gaite-Rochechouart, Au Divan Japonais, Forte 
chanteuse, Dineur, Lecture, Balayeur, Jeune 
fille. 

126. Feneon in L'Art Moderne, April 15, 1888. 
With regard to Seurat's frames it is only proper 
to add that not all the dotted frames in which 
his works appear today were made by the artist 
himself. In their forthcoming catalogue F. Fe- 
neon and C. M. de Haucke will indicate the 
original frames and those made after Seurat's 
death, most often not in harmony with his 
paintings. 

127. Unpublished letter of H. E. Cross to Fe- 
neon. 

128. See Verhaeren: Sensations, p. 202. 

129. Notice in L'Echo du Nord (Lille), March 
29, 1888. 

130. Notice in The New York Herald, Paris, 
March 23, 1888. 

131. P. Adam in La Vie Moderne, April 15, 
1888. 

132. M. Denis: Theories, pp. 257 and 263. For 
a comparison of Seurat's and Gauguin's tend- 
encies see R. Goldwater, "Some Aspects of the 
Development of Seurat's Style." The Art Bulle- 
tin, June 1941. 

133. Letter of Seurat to O. Maus, February 
27, 1889, published by M. O. Maus: Trente an- 
nees de lutte pour I'art, p. 87. Seurat's price 
amounting to 2555 francs would have been very 
low even for the period, if one judges by what 
van Gogh wrote his brother in 1888: "In my 
opinion we must at the lowest reckon his big pic- 
tures of the Models and the Grande Jatte well, 
say, at 5000 francs apiece" (letter 551). 

134. C. Pissarro wrote Feneon on February 21, 
1889: "At the moment I am trying to make my- 
self master of this technique which inhibits me 
and which hinders the development of sponta- 
neity of sensation." Signac later tried to explain 



Pissarro's desertion in his book, op. cit., chap. 
IV, thus: "Pissarro wants to achieve delicacy by 
means of adjustments of nearly like tones; he 
keeps from juxtaposing two distant tones and 
does without the vibrant note which sucii con- 
trast gives, but strives on the contrary to dimin- 
ish the distance between two tints by introduc- 
ing into each one of them intermediate elements 
which he calls paths. But the neo-impressionist 
technique is based precisely on this type of con- 
trast, for which he feels no need, and on the 
violent purety of tints which hurts his eye. He 
has kept of diiiisionis?n only the technique, the 
little dot, whose raison d'etre is exactly that it 
enables the transcription of this contrast and the 
conservation of this purety. So it is easy to un- 
derstand why he gave up this means, insufficient 
as it is by itself." 

135. Letter of C. Pissarro to H. Vandevelde 
quoted from the original draft foimd among 
Pissarro's papers. The letter actually sent to 
Vandevelde on March 27, 1896, was a protest 
against the inclusion of Pissarro's name in a list 
of neo-impressionists. 

136. Verhaeren: Sensations, p. 199. 

137. At the fifth exhibition of the Indepen- 
dants (Sept. 3-Oct. 4, 1889) Seurat showed only 
three paintings: Le Crotoy, (aval), Le Crotoy, 
(amont), Port-en-Bessi?}. 

138. Unpublished letter of C. Pissarro to his 
son Lucien, Sept. 9, 1889. 

139. See R. Rey, op. cit., p. 129. 

140. At the sixth Salon of the Independants 
(March 20-April 17, 1890) Seurat, 39, passage de 
I'Elysee des Beaux-Arts, exhibited nine paintings 
and two drawings: Le Chahut; Jeune jemme se 
poudrant; Port-en-Bessin, tin dimanche; Port-en- 
Bessin; Port-en-Bessin; Port-en-Bessin: Les grues 
et la percee; Temps gris (Grande Jatte); Prin- 
ternps (Grande Jatte); Paul Alexis, drawing; Paul 
Signac, drawing. 

141. M. de la Montague in Le Salut Public 
(Lyon), March 27, 1890. 

142. Delacroix quoted by Signac, op. cit., 
chap. I. 

143. Angrand, in a letter quoted by Coquiot, 
op. cit., p. 166, relates: "We were at the Pavilion 
de Paris sitting on a bench in the last hall when 
Puvis de Chavannes entered with a woman. He 
looked at the drawings by Denis near the door, 
and slowly made the rounds. — He will see, Seu- 
rat said to me, the mistake I made in the drawing 
of my horse. — But Puvis passed without stop- 
ping. This was a cruel blow tor Seurat." 

144. Notes of Seurat published in Bulletin de 
la Vie Artistique, April 1922. 

145. J. Christophe in La Plume, September 1, 
1891. 



79 




^ 

¦^ 



(*«#•*• 



o 



O 

be 



o 





3 
O 




^8. The Mower. al)oiit 1879. 



82 



-ri 




49. Landscape, aboiii 1.S82. 



83 




50. Suburb, 1883. 



84 




51. Peasant Hoeing, about 1884. 



85 




.C^l«^- :• 



^ ¦¦<' 




Jja. The Two Banks, SiikIn lor "I'lie Baignade." 1S83. 




53. Horses ill ihe Seine, Suicly for "liie Baignatlc," 1883. 



86 




5|. I'cople Silting ill the Grass, Study for "I'lie Baignacle," 18X3. 




55. The Bank of the Seine, Study for "Une Baignade," 1883. 



87 




59- The Seine at Courbevoie, 1885. 



90 



¦-^ *:-^:-'y.'j 




60. Setting Sun, Grandcamp, 1885. 



91 




61. The Harbor of Grandcamp. 1885. 



9Z 




62. Le Bee dii Hoc, Grandcamp, 1885. 



93 




63. L'lle de la Grande Jatie, 1885. 




6). Llle dc la Grande Jatte, 1884. 



94 




65- Study for "La Grande Jatte," i^ 




66. Study for "La Grande Jatte," if 



95 



-}&' 



O 



^^^^^^^^^BrT^^H-- 


: 'i^ 






t; 


'1 


I^SbP*"*'^ 




- V.' 


,^ 


'iaO':*' 


4 



¦3 
3 



O 

U 








3 
O 

u 




3 
O 



c 
a 

O 
-J 



O 




71. Study for "La Grande Jatte," 1884-85. 



98 




72. A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte, 1884- 



99 




73- The Hospice and the Lighthouse of Honfleur, 1886. 



100 




¦_]. The Biicl;j;e of Courbevoie, 1886-87. 



101 




106 




84. Les Poseuses, 1887-? 



107 




85. Grey Weather, Grande Jatie, alxiul 1887. 



108 




86. Les Grues et la Percee, Port-en-Bessin, i^ 



109 




3 




C/2 



''^^V 




¦^1 




:^.-<. 



inil 




91. Le Crotoy, Seaside, li 



112 




92. The Clienal de Giavelines, An Evening, i^ 



113 




()3- lite C;hciial <lc f;i;i\cline<i, Ciaiiil Fort Pliilippe. 1890. 



114 




I7r.^5TBT??Sr~»=TT -r-^- 



""'•J-S 



¦':*SS>iSgps^>imr 





94. lilt' CliLiKil de Giavelines, Petit Fort Philippe, 1890 



IIS 




95- Jcime feinme se ijoiuhaiii, iSSg-go. 



116 




96. Le Cirque, 1890-91. 



117 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



BOOKS ON SEURAT 

J. Christophe: Georges Seurat. Les Hommes 
d'Aujourd'htii, No. 368. Paris, Vanier, 
1890. 

A. Salmon: La Revelation de Seurat. Brussels, 
Tracts Selection, 1921. 

L. Coiisturier: Georges Seurat. Paris, Cres, 1921. 
(Reprinted from L'Art Decoratif, June 
1912 and March 1914 issues.) Second en- 
larged edition, 1926. 

A. Lhote: Georges Seurat. Rome, Valori Plastici, 
1922. 

W. Pach: Georges Seurat. New York, Duffield, 
1923- 



G. Coquiot: Seurat. Paris, A. Michel, 1924. 

G. Kahn: Les Dessins de Seurat. (Introduction to 
two volumes with 149 reproductions.) 
Paris, Bernheim-Jeune, 1926. 

W. George: Seurat. Album Druet, Paris, Librai- 
rie de France, 1928. 

C. Roger-Marx: Seurat. Les Artistes nouveaux. 

Paris, Cr^s, 1931. 

D. Catton Rich: Seurat and the Evolution of "La 

Grande Jatte." Chicago, The University 
of Chicago Press, 1935. 



BOOKS WITH MATERIAL ON SEURAT 

F. Feneon: Les Impressionnistes en 1886. Paris, 

La Vogue, 1886. 

Anonymous [F. Feneon, P. Adam, J. Moreas, 
O. Metenier]: Petit Bottin des lettres et 
des arts. Paris, E. Giraud, 1886. 

G. Moore: Confessions of a Young Man. (First 

published in the Revue Indepei^dante, 
1888.) 

F. F^n^on: Paul Signac. Les Homines d'Aujour- 

d'hui. No. 373. Paris, Vanier, 1890. 

G. Moore: Modern Painting. London, Scott, 

1893. 

A. Mellerio: Le Mouvement idealiste en pein- 
ture. Paris, Floury, 1896. 

P. Signac: D'Eugene Delacroix au Neo-impres- 
sionnisme. Paris, Edition de la Revue 
Blanche, 1899. 

C. Mauclair: The French Impressionists. Lon- 
don, Duckworth, 1903. 

E. Van de Velde: Die Renaissance im modernen 
Kunstgewerbe (neue Ausgabe). Berlin, 
Cassirer, n.d. [1903?]. 

J. Meier-Graefe: Entwicklungsgeschichte der 
modernen Kimst. Stuttgart, Hoffmann, 
1904. Second enlarged edition, Miinchen, 
Piper, 1927. English translation: The De- 
velopment of Modern Art. New York. Put- 
nam, 1908. 



A. Fontainas: Histoire de la peinture fran^aise 
au XIXe siecle. Paris, Edition du Mercure 
de France, 1906. 

R. Muther: The History of Modern Painting. 
New York, Dutton, 1907. 

V. Pica: Gl'impressionisti Francesi. Bergamo, 
Arti Grafiche, 1908. 

R. Muther: Geschichte der Malerei. Band III, 18. 

und 19. Jahrhundert. Leipzig, Grethlein, 

1909- 
J. C. Holl: Apres I'impressionnisme. Paris, Li- 

brairie du XXe Siecle, 1910. 

M. Denis: Theories, 1890-1910. Paris, Biblio- 
th^que de VOccident, 1912. 

M. Raphael: Von Monet zu Picasso. Miinchen- 
Leipzig, Delphin Verlag, 1913. 

V. van Gogh: Brieven aan zijn broeder. Vol. III. 
Amsterdam, 1914. (English translation: 
Further Letters of Vincent van Gogh to 
his Brother, 1886-1889. New York, 
Houghton Mifflin, 1929). 

W. H. Wright: Modern Painting. New York, 
J. Lane, 1915. 

C. Mauclair: L'Art independant fran^ais sous la 
Ille Republique. Paris, La Renaissance 
du Livre, 1919. 

M. Deri: Die Malerei im XIX. Jahrhundert. Ber- 
lin, Cassirer, 1919. 



119 



M. Osborn: Gcschichte dcr Kunst, Berlin, Ull- 
stein, 1920. 

T. L. Klingsor: La Peintiirc. Paris, Rieder, 1921. 

G. Coquiot: Les Independants. Paris, Ollendorf, 
1921. 

A. Salmon: Pcindre. Paris, La Sirene, 1921. 

A. Salmon: Propos d'Atelier. Paris, 1922. 

J. Gordon: Modern French Painters. London, 
Bodley Head, 1923. 

E. Faure: Histoire de I'Art; I'art moderne. Paris, 

Cr^s, 1924. 

G. Coquiot: Des Peintres maudits. Paris, Del- 
puech, 1924. 

Ozenfant et Jannerct: La Peinture moderne. 
Paris, Cr^s, 1925. 

F. Lehel: Notre art dement. Paris, Jonquieres, 

1926. 

R. Fry: Transformations. London, Chatto & 
Windus, 1926. 

M. Octave-Maus: Trente annexes de lutte pour 
I'art, 1884-1914. Brussels, Librairie de 
I'Oiseau bleu, 1926. 

E. ^Valdmann: Die Kunst des Realismus und 
des Impressionismus im 19. Jahrhundert. 
Berlin, Propyliien Verlag, 1927. 

E. Verhaeren: Sensations. Paris, Cr^s, 1927. 

F. J. Mather: Modern Painting. New York, 1927. 

C. Bell: Landmarks in Nineteenth Century 
Painting. New York, Harcourt, Brace, 
1927. 

S. Bourgeois: The Adolf Lc^visolin Collection of 
Modern French Paintings and Sculptures. 
W'eyhe, New York, 1928. 

H. Focillon: La Peinture aux XIXc et XXe 
siccics. Paris, Laurens, 1928. 

J. E. Blanche: De Gauguin a la rc\ue ncgie. 
Paris, Emile-Paul, 1928. 

VV. Pacii: The Masters of Modern Art. New 
York, Viking Press, 1929. 

H. de Rtgnier: Vestigia Flammae. Paris, Editions 
du Mrrciire de France, 1929. 

Basler and Kunstler: Le Dessin et la gravure 
modernes. Paris, Cr6s, 1930. 

R. Rey: La Peinture fran^aise h la fin du XIXe 
si^cle. La Renaissance du sentiment das- 
sique. Paris, Les Beaux-.\rts, 1931. 

G. Eglington: Reaching for Art. Boston, 1931. 

P. Jamot: French Painting II. Burlington Maga- 
zine, special numlier, London, January 
'932. 

Anonymous [G. Besson?]: Le N(''o-Impression- 
iiisme. IVe Bulletin des expositions de la 
Galerie Braun, Paris, 1932. 



A. Lhote: La Peinture. Paris, Denoel et Steele, 
1933- 

iM. Raphael: Proudhon. Marx, Picasso, trois 
etudes sur la sociologie de I'art. Paris, Ex- 
celsior, 1933. 

R. Cogniat: Seurat et ses amis, la suite de I'lm- 
pressionnisme. Exhibition Catalogue, 
Paris, Beaux-.Arts, December 1933-Janu- 
ary 1934- 

P. Signac: Le Neo-impressionnisme, documents. 
(Introduction to the Catalogue of the ex- 
hibition "Seurat et ses amis," reprinted in 
Gazette des Beaux-Arts, 1934.) 

V. Vola\ka: Malirsky rukopis. Prague, Statni 
Graficla Scola, 1934. 

J. J. Sweeny: Plastic Redirections in 20th Cen- 
tury Painting. University of Chicago 
Press, 1934. 

R. Huyghe: Histoire de I'art contemporain, la 
peinture. Paris, .\lcan, 1934. 

C. J. BuUiet: The Significant Moderns. New 
York, Covici Friede, 1936. 

J. Laver: French Painting and the Nineteenth 
Century. London, Batsford, 1937. 

J. Helion: Poussin, Seurat and Double Rythme. 
Published in M. Evans: The Painter's Ob- 
ject. London, Hove, 1937. 

P. Francastel: L'Impressioniiisme. des origines 
de la peinture moderne de Monet a Gau- 
guin. Paris, Belles Lettres, 1937. 

S. Lewisohn: Painters and Personality. New York, 
Harper, 1937. 

F. No\otny: Cc'/anne und das Ende der wissen- 
schaftlichen Perspective. Wien, .\. Schroll, 
1938- 

C. Zervos: Histoire de lari contenqjorain. Paris, 

Edition des Cahiers d'Art, 1938. 

R. Huyghe: The Contenq^oraries. New York, 
French & European Publications, 1939. 

L. Vcnturi: Camillc Pissarro. Introduction to the 
Catalogue raisonne of Pissarro's work by 
L. R. Pissarro. Paris, Rosenberg. 1939. 

L. Venturi: Les Archives de I'lmpressionnisme. 
Paris-New York, Durand-Ruel, 1939. 

E. P. Richardson: The AVay of Western Art, 
1776-1914. Cambridge, Harvard Univer- 
sity Press, 1939. 

.\. M. Bri/io: Ottocento No\oceiuo. Torino. Ed. 
lorinesi, 1939. 

R. H. AVilenski: Modern I'leiuh Painters. New 
York, Reynal & Hitchcock, 1940. 

S. Cheney: The Story of Modern .\rt. Ne^v ^¦ork, 
Viking Press, 1941. 

D. M. Robb and J. J. Ciarrison: .Art in the West- 

ern World. New ^ork. Harpers, 1942. 

R. tionuv de la Serna: Ismos. Buenos .\ires, 
Poseidon, 1943. 



120 



ARTICLES ON SEURAT 

R. Marx: Le Salon. Le Progrcs Artistique, June 
15, 1883. 

Trublot [P. Alexis]: Exposition des Indepen- 
dants. Cri du Peuple, May 15 and 17, 
1884. 

R. Marx: L'Exposition des artistes independants. 
Le Voltaire, May 16, 1884. 

P. de Katow: Le Salon des artistes independants. 
Gil Bias, May 17, 1884. 

E. Jacques: Salon des Independants. L'lntran- 
sigeant, May 24, 1884. 

Anonymous: The French Impressionists. Neiu 
York Daily Tribune, April 10, 1886. 

Anonymous: The Impressionists. The Sun, New 
York, April 11, 1886. 

Anonymous: The French Impressionists. Tlie 
Critic, New York, April 17, 1886. 

Anonymous: An Exhibition at New York. Art 
Age, New York, April 1886. 

A. Alexandre: Article in I'Evenement, April 23, 
1886. 

H. Fevre: Article on the Exhibition of the Im- 
pressionists, Revile de Demain, May 1886. 

P. Adam: Article on the Exhibition of the Im- 
pressionists, Revue Conleinjjoraine, May 
1886. 

Fouquier: Article on the Exhibition of the Im- 
pressionists, XI Xe Siecle, May 16, 1886. 

O. Mirbeau: Article on the Exhibition of the Im- 
pressionists, La France, May 21, 1886. 

M. Harael: Article on the Exhibition of the Im- 
pressionists, La France Libre, May 28, 
1886. 

A. Paulet: Article on the Exhibition of the Im- 
pressionists, Paris, June 5, 1886 

E. Hennequin: Les Impressionnistes. La lie Mo- 
derne, June 10, 1886. 

J. Ajalbert: Article on the Exhibition of the Im- 
pressionists, La Revue Moderne, Mar- 
seilles, Jime 20, 1886. 

Anonymous [O. Maus?]: Les Vingtistes parisiens. 
L'Art Moderne, Brussels, June 27, 1886. 

J. Le Fustec: Article on the Exhibition of the 
"Independants," Journal des Artistes, Au- 
gust 22, 1886. 

E. Hennequin: L'exposition des artistes inde- 

pendants. La Vie Moderne, Se^t. 11, i886. 

F. Feneon: L'Impressionnisme aux Tuileries. 

L'/lr< Mode)-?!e, Brussels, Sept. ig, 1886. 

T. de Wyzewa: L'Art contemporain. Revue Inde- 
pendante, Nov.-Dec. 1886. 

A. Alexandre: Article in VEvenement, December 
10, 1886. 



E. Verhaeren: Le Salon des Vingt a Bruxellcs. La 

Vie Moderne, Feb. 26, 1887. 

A. J. Wauters: Aux XX, Seurat, La Grande Jatte. 
La Gazette, Brussels, Feb. 28, 1887. 

Trublot [P. Alexis]: L'Exposition des artistes in- 
dependants. Cri du Peuple, March 26, 
1887. 

G. Kahn: La Vie artisticjue. La Vie Moderne, 
April 9, 1887. 

J. K. Huysmans: Chronique d'Art. Revue Inde- 
pendante, April 1887. 

J. Christophe: Article in the Journal des Artistes, 
April 24, 1887. 

F. Feneon: Article in the Revue Exotique, May 

1887. 

P. Signac: Les XX. (Letter by Neo [Signac] to 
Trublot [Alexis]). Cri du Peuple, Feb. 9, 
1888. 

Anonymous: Notice in the New York Herald, 
Paris, March 23, 1888. 

P. Signac: IVe exposition des artistes indepen- 
dants. (Letter by Neo [Signac] to Trublot 
[Alexis]). Cri du Peuple, March 24, 1888. 

F. de Faramond: Article on the Exhibition of the 

"Independants." La Vie Franco-Russe, 
March 24, 1888. 

Anonymous: Notice in VEcho du Nord (Lille), 
March 29, 1888. 

G. Geffroy: Article on the Exhibition of the "In- 

dependants." La Justice, April 11, 1888. 

F. Feneon: Le Neo-impressionnisme a la IVe ex- 

position des artistes independants. L'Art 
Moderne, Brussels, April 15, 1888. 

P. Adam: Les impressionnistes a l'exposition des 
Independants. La Vie Moderne, April 15, 

1888. 

G. Kahn: Exposition des Independants. Revue 

Independante, April 1888. 

A. Alexandre: Exposition des Independants. 
Paris, August 13, 1888. 

Several articles in Dutch newspapers concerning 
an exhibition in The Hague of \\orks by 
Seurat, Pissarro, Degas, etc., 1888. 

M. de la Montague: Notice in the Salut Public, 
Lyons, March 27, 1890. 

Anonymous: Notice in the Moniteur de I'Armee, 
April 4, 1890. 

J. L. [Leclercq]: Aux Independants. Mercure de 
France, May 1890. 

G. Lecomte: Le Salon des Independants. L'Art 
dans les Deux Mondes, March 28, 1891. 

E. Verhaeren: Georges Seurat. Societe Nouvelle, 
April 1891. (Reprinted in: Sensations. 
Paris, Cres, 1927.) 



121 



G. Kahn: Georges Seurat. L'Art Moderne, Brus- 
sels, April 5, 1891. 

T. de VVyzcwa: Georges Seurat. L'Art dans les 
Deux Mondes, April 18, 1891. 

J. Christophe: G. Seurat. La Plume, Sept. 1, 1891 
(Numero special sur les peintres nova- 

teurs). 

A. Germain: Theorie Chromo-Luminariste. La 
Plume, Sept. 1, 1891. 

E. Cousturier: Soci^t^ des artistes independants. 
L'Endehors, March 27, 1892. 

Tiphereth: Nco-impressionnistes. Le Coeur, July 
1894. 

J. Leclercq: Exposition Georges Seurat. Chro- 
nique des Arts, March 31, 1900. 

E. Verhaeren: Georges Seurat. L'Art Modern e, 

Brussels, April 1, 1900. 

T. Nathanson: Un primitif d'aujourd'hui. Geor- 
ges Seurat. Revue Blanche, April 15, 1900. 

A. Fontainas: Art moderne. Mercure de France, 
May 1900. 

Ch. Morice: Les XX, Salon des Independants. 
Mercure de France, April 15, 1905. 

F. de Miomandre: Article in L'Art et les Ar- 

tistes, Feb. 1909. 

A. Chervachidze: Georges Seurat. Apollon, Mos- 
cow, July 191 1. 

L. Cousturier: Georges Seurat. L'Art Decoratif. 
June 20, 1912. (This article as well as the 
following were published as a book. Paris, 
Cr6s, 1921.) 

L. Cousturier: Les Dessins de Seurat. L'Art De- 
coratif, March 1914. 

A. Salmon: Georges Seurat. Burlington Maga- 
zine, Sept. 1920. 

Bissi^re: Notes sur I'art de Seurat. Esfjrit Nou- 
veau, Oct. 15, 1920. 

J. M. Langaard: Georges Seurat. Kunst og Kul- 
tur, Norway, 1921. 

Anonymous [F. Fcnc^-on]: Influences: .\ propos de 
la revelation de Seurat par A. Salmon. 
Bulletin de la Vie Artistique, Jan. 1, 1922. 

F. F^neon: Les Garnets d'Henri-Edmond Cross, 
I-VIII. Bulletin de la Vie Artistique, May 
15, June 1, July 1, Sept. 1, Oct. 1. Oct. 15. 
1922. 

F. F(^n(?on: Notes inddites de Seurat sur Dela- 
croix. Bulletin de la Vie Artistique, .\pril 
1 and 15, 1922. 

Anonymous [F. F^n^on]: Sur Georges Seurat. 
Bulletin de la Vie Artistique, Jiuie 15. 
1922. 

J. Carrt": Le grand art, Georges Seurat. La Vie. 
Sept. I, 1922. 



G. Kahn: Au temps du pointillisme. Mercure de 
France, May 1924. 

G. Eglington: The Theory of Seurat. Interna- 
tional Studio, 1925. (Republished in: 
Reaching for .\rt, Boston, 1931.) 

J. B. Manson: La Baignade. Apollo, 1925. . 

O. Sitwell: The Courtauld Collection. Apollo, 

»925- 
A. Ozenfant: Seurat. Cahiers d'Art, Sept. 1926. 

.\. Salmon: Seurat. L'Art Vivant, 1926. 

R. Rey: A propos du Cirque de .Seurat. Beaux- 
Arts, 1926. 

O. Sitwell: Les Poseuses. Apollo, 1926. 

F. Feneon: Georges Seurat und die offentliche 
Meinung. Qiierschnitt, Oct. 1926. 

C. Zervos: Idealisme et naturalisme dans la pein- 
ture moderne. Cahiers d'Art, 1927. 

C. Roger-Marx: Georges Seurat. Gazette des 
Beaux-Arts, 1927. 

F. Fels: Les Dessins de Seurat. L' Amour de I'Art, 
1927. 

R. Bouyer: De Seurat a Fauconnet. Bulletin de 
I'Art, 1927. 

R. M. F.: Notes on Some Modern Drawings. Bul- 
letin of the Art Institute, Chicago, 1927. 

F. Fels: Seurat. A. B. C. Magazine, Nov. 1927. 

R. A. Parker: The Drawings of Georges Seurat. 
International Studio, Sept. 1928. 

C. Zervos: "Un Dimanche a la Grande Jatte" et 
la technique de Seurat. Cahiers d'Art, No. 
9, 1928. 

R. Fry: Seurat's "La Parade." Burlington Maga- 
zine, 1929. 

Anonymous: Quelques esquisses et dessins de 
Georges Seurat. Documents, No. 4, Sept. 
1929- 

A. Barr, ]r.: Introduction to the Catalogue of the 
First Loan Exhiiiition, Museiun of Mod- 
ern Art, New York, Nov. 1929. 

P. Jamot: Une etude pour le "Dimanche :i la 
Grande Jatte" de Seurat. Bulletin des 
M usees, Paris, 1930. 

K. Niehaus: Georges Seurat. Elsevier's Geillus- 
tred Maandschrift, Amsterdam, 1930. 

A. Basler: Le Probl^me de la forme depuis Ce- 

zanne. L' Amour de I'Art, Sept. 1930. 

E. Teriade: Jeunesse. Cahiers d'Art, 1931. 

J. F. van Deene: Georges Seurat. Maandblad 
voor Beeldende Kunsten, VIII, 1931. 

B. E. Werner: Georges Seurat. Die Kunst, Feb. 

'9:^2. 

\\^ George: The Spirit of French .\rt. The 
Studio, 1932. 



122 



F. Walter: Du paysage classique au surr^alisme, 

Seurat. Revue de I'Art, 1933. 

A. J. Honig: Seurat, in Edouard-Joseph: Dic- 
tionnaire biographique dcs artistes con- 
temporains. Paris, Grund, 1934. 

J. A. [Abbott]: Woman with a Monkey. Bulletin 

of the Smith College Museum of Art, June 

1934- 
P. Signac: Les Besoins individuels et la peinture. 

Encyclopedie Fran^aise, Vol. XVI, Chap. 

II. Paris, 1935. 

M. Schapiro: Seurat and "La Grande Jatte." Co- 
lumbia Review, XVII, 1935. 

W. Grohmann: Seurat, in Thieme-Becker: All- 
gemeines Lexikon der bildenden Kiinstler, 
vol. 30. Leipzig, Seemann, 1936. 

A. Watt: The Art of Georges Seurat. Apollo, 
March 1936. 

J. Helion: Seurat as a Predecessor. Burlington 
Magazine, 1936. 

G. Jedlicka: Die Zeichnungen Seurats. Galerie 

und Sammler, Ziirich, Oct.-Nov. 1937. 



J. Rewald: Camille Pissarro, His Work and Influ- 
ence. Burlington Magazine, Jinie 1938. 

P. Mabille: Dessins inedits de Seurat. Minotaurc, 
1938. 

D. Le Blond-Zola: Paul Alexis, ami des pcintres, 
bohcme et critique d'art. Mercure de 
France, March 1, 1939. 

J. A. [Abbott]: Two Drawings by Seurat. Smith 
College Museum of Art Btilletin, 1939. 

A. Newniarch: Seurat. ^po//o, July 1940. 

R. Goldwater: Some Aspects of the Development 
of Seurat's Style. The Art Bulletin, June 
1941. 

B. Nicholson: Seurat's "La Baignade." Burling- 

ton Magazine, Nov. 1941. 

A. C. R. [Ritchie]: An Important Seurat. Gallery 
Notes, Albright Art Gallery, Buffalo, May 
1943- 

J. Rewald: Pissarro and his Friends. Gazette des 
Beaux-Arts, June 1943. 



123 



INDEX 



Adam. P., 26, 33, 58, 66 
Alexis, P., 14, 34, fig. 2S 
Aman-Jeaii, 1, 3, 4, 51, 56, fig. 11 
American Art Association, 37 
Andromeda on the Rock, 2, fig. 5 
Angrand, Ch., 13, 18, 24, 34, 43, 69 
Art Age, The, 77 
Art Moderne, L', 36 
Asnicres, 10, 14, 18, 26 

Baignade, La, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 18, 
'9-26, 31, 37, 39, 56, 76, figs. 12, 

'3> '4, 52. 53> 5-f' 55' 56, 57' 5^ 
Barrt's, M., 72 
Baudelaire, 4, 5, 6 
Bayreiith, 62 

Beaubourg, M., 24, 60, 76, fig. 41 
Dec du Hoc, Grandcamp, Le, 29, 

42, 76, 77, fig. 62 
Blanc, Ch., 2, 5, 6 
Blanche, J. E., 34, 75, 78 
Bougncrcau, 37 
Boulevard de Clichy, 53 
Boulevard des Italiens, 28 
Boulevard Magenta, 14, 54, 73 
Brest, 3 
Brussels, 36, 39. 42, 66, 67, 72 

Cabanel, 37 

"Cafe Marengo," 18 

"Caf6 de la Nouvelle Athcnes," 46, 

54 
"Caf(^ d'Orient," 18 
"Cafe Tortoni," 29 
Caillebotte, 27, 28 
Carabin, de, 51 
Cassatt, 28, 38, 65 
Cercle Chromatiquc, Le, 59 
Cezanne, 8, 14, 19, 27, 31, 49, 58 
Chaliut, Le, 58, 70, 71, 72, 79, figs. 

88, 89, 90 
Chapelle des Saints-Anges, 4 
Chenal de (iravelines, 73, figs. 92, 

93' <)4 
Chcrct, 50, 56, 72 
Chcvreul, 2, 7, 16, 19, 23, 31, 6<i 
Chrislophe, J., 34, 60, 72, 74 
Cirque, Le, 58, 71, 72, 73. figs. ^5, 

p6 
"Cirque Fernando," 54 



Clarciie, J., 14 
Clichy. fig. jo 

Coin d'un Bassin a Honfieur, 39. 77 
"Concert Europeen," 55, fig. S- 
Convulsionnaires de Tanger, Lcs, 6 
Corot, 19 

Cousturier, L., 51, 52 
Cri du Peu})le, Le, 14 
Critic, The, 38, 77 
Cross, H.-E., 13, 18, 43. 65, 66. 69, 
V'fg- 25 

David, 21 

Decadence, La, 33 

Degas, 27, 28, 29. 31, 34. 46. 49, 51. 

55 
Delacroix, 2, 4. 5, 6, 10. 1-,. 16, 21, 

31,32.49.71,73 
Denis. M., 67 
"Divan Japonais." 55 
Donatello, 51 
Do\e, 32 
Dubois-Pillet. 13, 18, 31. 40. 43. 65, 

Durand-Ruel, 19. 27. 37, 38, 39, 45 
Duranty, E., 33 

Echo du Xord, L', 66 

Ecole des Beaux-.\rts, 1, 56, 75 

"Elysce Montmartre," 70 

Femmes d'/ilger, Les, 6 

Fenten. 31, 33-36, 37, 39, 40, 47, 50. 

54. 56. 58, 64, 6r„ 72, 76, 78, 79, 

figs. 20, 21, }2 
Figaro, Le, 29, 39 
Forain, 56 
Fouquier, M., 30 
France, A., 72 

"Gaiet^ Rochechouart," 55 
Gauguin, 27, 28, 33, 44, 46, 50. 58, 
63. 61. 65, 66, 67. 72, 77, 78, fig. 

34 
Gausson, 43 
G(:r6me, 37 
Gide, A., 72 
Gil Bias. 45 
Gogh, Th. van, n. 77,79 



Gogh, \. van, 43, 44, 55. 72, 73, 77, 

/"g- 33 
Goncourt, i, 42 
Goulue, La, 35 
Gourmont, R. de, 34 
Grammar of Painting and Engrav- 

'"g. 2, 5 
Grandcamp, 19, 28, 29. 31, 39. 42. 

72, 78, figs. 60, 61, 62 
Grande Jatte, La, 18, 19-26, 28, 29. 

31. 32. 39. 40. 42, 56. 58. 62. 63. 

64, 65, 66, 67, 77, 78, figs. 16, I-]. 

18, ig, 6j, 64, 6^, 66, 67, 68, 69, 

70, 7/, 72, «5 
Gravelines, 72, figs. 4J, 92, 95, 9./ 
Guillaumin, 15, 19, 27, 28, 46. 56, 

72 
Guys, C, 56 

Hayet, L., 19. 43 

Hennequin, E., 31, 42, 63. 78 

Henry, Ch., 34. 59, 76 

Holbein, 2, fig. 5 

Hommes d'.4ujourd'hui, Les, 35, 

72 
Honfleur, 39, 40, 42. 64. 72. figs. 22, 

73 
Huysmans, J. K., 63 

Impressionists, 7. 8. 10. 14. 15, 16, 

18. 27-32,33,36,37 
Impressionnistes en 1886. Les, 36. 

37 
Indcpendants. Les, 13. 17. 18. 39. 
51, 54, 63, 65, 66, 69. 70, 72. 73. 

77. 78. 79 
Ingres, i, 2, 15, 21, figs. 5, 6 
Inlransigeant, L', 14 

Jacques, E., 14 

Jeune femme se poudrant, 58. 69, 
70. 79. fiS- 95 

Kahn. G., 33, 34, 48. 51. 54. 56. 57. 

70. 76 
Knobloch, M., 51, 69. fig. 93 

Laforgue, J., 33 
Leclcrcq. J., 63 
Leconue, G., 46 



124 



Le Ciotoy, 69, 72. 79. fig. qi 
Lehmanii, H., 1 
Leqiiin, J., 1 
Le Raincy, 56 

Lighthouse of Hoiiflciir. 42. 64, 77, 

78. fig- 73 
Louvre, 2, 7, 18. 49 
Luce, M., 34, 43, 47, 66, figs. 25, 26, 

29, 39 
Luxembourg, 34, 35 

Madison Square Gardens, 37 

Mallarmc, 33, 34, 54, 72 

Man Dining, 56, fig. J5 

Manet, Eduard, 31, 33, 34. 37. 38 

Manet, Eugene, 27, 28 

Marx, R., 4, 14, 18 

Maus, O., 39, 42, 67 

Maxwell, 19 

Meissonier, 37 

Mirbeau, 30, 31, 72 

Models, The, see Poseuses 

Monet, 15, 19, 21, 27, 28. 29. 37. 40, 

49,64,66,79 
Montmartre, 13, fig. 29 
Montparnasse, 13 
Moore, G., 28, 30, 34 
Moreas, 26, 33, 72 
Moreau, G., 33 
Nforisot, 27, 28 
Mmillo, 7 

Nantes, 40 

National Academy of Design, 38 

Neuville, A. de, 1 

New York, 37 

New York Daily Triliiine. 37 

Oeuvre, L', 45 

Parade, La, 58, 70, 72, 79. figs. 75, 

76,77 
Passage Elysce des Beaux-Arts, 67 
Petitjean, H., 43 



Phenonienes dc la J'ision, 59, 60 

I'iiidias. 19 

Picard, E., 40 

Pissarro, C., 8, 19, 20, 27, 28, 29. 30, 

3'. 31. 37. 40. 42. 43. 45. 46, 47. 
49, 52, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 72, 

74. 79- fig^- 26. 3r 
Pissarro, L., 19, 27, 28, 29. 43, 69. 74 
Port-en-Bessin, 69, 72, 79. fig. 86 
Poseuses, Les, 42, 56, r,8, 66, 67, 79, 
figs. 23, 40, -J 8, 79, 80, 8r, 82, 8^, 
84 
Poussin, 2, 8, fig. 4 
Principles of Harmony and Con- 
trast of Colors, On the, 2 
Puvis de Chavannes, 1, 14, 33, 6g 

Raffaelli, 34 
Raphael, 2 

Rapporteur Esthetique, 59 

Redon, 13, 17, 28, 72 

Rcgnier, H. de, 33, 72, 78 

Renard, J., 72 

Renoir, 19, 27, 28, 37, 49. 55, 64 

Revue Blanche, 36 

Revue Independante, 34, 35, 54, 76 

Rey, R., 71 

Rood, N. O., 19, 31, 32, 59 

Rue d'Amsterdam, 46 

Rue de I'Arlialete, 3 

Rue de Bondy, i 

Rue de Chabrol, 3 

RuedeClichy, 18 

Rue Laffitte, 28 

Rysselberghe, Tli. van, 43, fig. ?2 

Saint Sulpice, 4 

Salon, Le, 4, 12, 13, 16. 18, 27 

Salon des Independants. see Inde- 

pendants 
Saltimbanques, figs. 57, 42 
Salut Public, Le, 70 
Schuffenecker, E., 28, 44 



Scientific Theojj of Color, etc., 

The, 58, 59 
Seine, 12, 19, 40, 42, figs. 75, 59, 

Sc-rusier, P., 64 

Semat, the artist's father, i, 56, fig. 

35 
Semat, the artist's mother, 50, 54, 

55. 56- 73. fig- 36 
Signac, P., 8, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 

19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 

.S4. 35. 36. 37. 4<». 42. 43. 44. 45. 

47' 49. 52. 53. 54. 56, 58. 72. 74. 

79' fig^- 27. 30 
Sir Richard Southwell, 2, fig. ^ 
Sisley, 27, 28, 29, 37, 64. 72 
Source, The, 2, fig. 6 
Stevens, A., 29 
Sutter, 59, 60 
Symbolisle, Le, 33, 35 

Tanguy, Le pcre, 49 
"Taverne Anglaise," 46. 54 
Temps, Le, 14 

Toulouse-Lautrec, 35, 55, fig. 21 
Trublot, 14, 30, 34 

\'andevelde, H., 43, 68 

Vercingetorix, 1 

Verhaeren, E., 29. 40, 42, 44, 48 

62, 69, fig. 32 
Verlaine, 33, 34 
Veronese, 7 

Vic Moderne, La, 31, 39, 42 
Vingt, group, 42, 43, 66, 67, 72 
Vogue, Z,a, 31 , 33, 35. 36, 47, 76 
Voltaire, Le, 14 

Wagner, 59 
Whistler, 54 
Wyzewa, T. de, 31, 51 

Zola, E., 14, 33, 34, 45 



125 



TWO RECENT BOOKS BY 

ANDRE MASSON 

FRENCH PAINTER AND GRAPHIC ARTIST 



MYTHOLOGY 
OF BEING 

A poem. Eight pen and ink drawings 
with frontispiece. 

Printed in 200 copies, numbered and 
signed by the artist. Portfolio, 141/^ by 
i8i/^ inches. $10.00 

30 copies with one original 

etching $28.00 



ANATOMY 
OF MY UNIVERSE 

Text and 34 drawings 

(published by C. VALENTIN) 

Printed in 330 copies. Cloth bound, 
10I/2 by 8I/2 inches. $ 6.00 

10 copies with one pen and 
ink drawing and one 
original etching, both 
signed by the artist $50.00 

20 copies with one original 
etching signed by the art- 
ist $18.00 

Order from your bookseller, or from 

WITTENBORN AND COMPANY 

Books on the Fine Arts 

NEW YORK 2 2, N.Y. 



f 

TWO FORTHCOMING ART PUBLICATIONS 

AMBROISE VOLLARD • Editeur • 1869 -1939 

An appreciation and catalogue of all known Vollard prints, editions de luxe and bronzes 
by Una E. Johnson, Curator of Prints and Drawings at the Brooklyn Museum. Preface by 
Henry McBride. 

Ambroise \'^ollard, in his role as publisher and art dealer has left an imposing record of 
the French art and taste of his time. Miss Johnson's catalogue mentions the works of fifty- 
five artists, among them are 

BERNARD • BLANCHE • BONNARU • BRAQUE • CEZANNE • CHAGALL • DEGAS • DtFV • FORAIN • MAILLOL 
MUNCH • PICASSO • PUVIS DE CHA\ ANNES • REDON • RENOIR • RODIN • ROL AIJLT • SISLEY • TOULOUSE- 
LAUTREC • VAN GOGH • VIILLARD • WHISTLER 

FROM THE TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CATALOGUE arranged alphabetically by artists: The prints and print albums, the books 
(editions de luxe), the bronzes, the unpublished books. BIBLIOGRAPHY. APPEN- 
DICES: Chronological list of the Vollard editions, the printers of the editions, criticisms 
by Vollard's contemporaries, the titles of illustrated books, a.o. PLATES. INDEX. 

One volume, cloth bound, 7 by loi/^ inches. Over 180 pp. 52 plates, with some impub- 
lished illustrations which were in preparation at the time of Vollard's death. Printed in 
250 copies on Warren's paper from Granjon type. Designed by Peter Beilenson of the 
Walpole Printing Office. (September 194^^) $18.50 

An indispensable ivork of reference and bibliographical check-list on the history of art 
from Cezanne to Picasso. 



GEORGES BRAQ^UE 

Essay and Bibliography by 
A. E. Gallatin, Foimder of the Museum of Living Art 

This is the first monograph in English on Braque, wTitten by a painter and writer whose 
close contact with Cubist and Abstract art is well known. 

One volume, cloth bound, 73^ by loi/^ inches. About 50 pp. 12 collotype plates, one in two 
colors, incl. hitherto unpublished reproductions. Printed in 450 copies on fine wove an- 
ii(|ue paper from (iranjon type. Designed by Peter Beilenson of the Walpole Printing 
OIIkc. (October i()4'i) S^^.^o 

Order from your bookseller, or from 
WITTENBORN AND COMPANY, Books on the Fine Arts, New York 22, N.Y. 



