A CARTOON HISTORY OF 
THE NINETEEN TWENTIES 


EX LIBRIS 

WHITNEY MUSEUM 



OF 



AMERICAN ART 



10WEST 8TH STREET- NEW YORK 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2012 with funding from 

Metropolitan New York Library Council - METRO 



http://archive.org/details/highcartooOOkirb 



HIGHLIGHTS 

A Cartoon History of 
The Nineteen Twenties 



HIGHLIGHT 

A CARTOON HISTORY 
OF THE NINETEEN TWENTIES 


BY 



Rpllin Kirby 



A SELECTION OF HIS CARTOONS IN 




WITH A FOREWORD BY 

Walter Lippmann 

Frontispiece Portrait by Albert Sterner 



Edited, with Illuminating Excerpts 
from Contemporary Sources, by 

Henry B. Hoffmann 

WILLIAM FARQUHAR PAYSON 


Copyright 1920, 1921, 1922, 1923, 1924, 1925, 1926, 
1927, 1928, 1929, 1930, 1931 by The Press Publishing Co., Inc. 

Copyright 1931 

by 
WILLIAM FARQUHAR PAYSON 
Incorporated 



Printed in the United States by the Stratford Press, 
and bound by the American Book Bindery, New York 

— A — 



To My Mother 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Foreword xiii 

Editorial Note xvi 

A Cartoon History of the Nineteen Twenties i 

Index of Personalities and Characters 132 



[xi] 



FOREWORD 

Although there is no cartoonist in American journalism who has 
. such an unmistakably personal style, Rollin Kirby's cartoons in 
The World expressed the intentions of The World as a newspaper. 
They belonged to its editorial page and were treated as editorials done 
in pictures. For Kirby's cartoons The World accepted as much moral 
responsibility as for its leading editorials, and not merely the legal and 
commercial responsibility which it bore in respect to its columnists, 
critics, and comic artists. 

For this reason, Kirby's cartoon was never prepared with a view to 
syndicated publication. There were a few newspapers outside of New 
York City which bought the right to use his cartoons, but neither Mr. 
Kirby nor the editors of The World ever gave a thought to the syn- 
dicate, its wishes, its views, or its profits. The cartoon was drawn under 
the dome of the Pulitzer Building in Park Row for publication that 
same night, and as the first edition of The World was on sale by ten- 
thirty in the evening, not more than ten hours elapsed between the 
conception of the cartoon and its publication. There was not the time, 
even had there been the inclination, to make calculations as to whether 
the views expressed in the cartoon would suit newspaper editors in 
other parts of the country. Thus Mr. Kirby did not feel the devastating 
syndicated pressure to be non-committal, that corrupting impulse to 
seek the very common denominator among the prejudices of many 
employers. His one employer was The World, which in practice meant 
that he consulted the editor in charge of the editorial page; and as 
things were conducted in the Pulitzer Building business considerations 
were a family secret which cartoonists and editors were never invited 
to share. Thus, while The World lived, its editorial opinion was sin- 
gularly free from the kind of preoccupation which impels many 
American newspapers to prefer ten sins of omission to one of com- 
mission. 

[xiii] 



The material conditions were, therefore, peculiarly well suited to 
giving Mr. Kirby's cartoons a sharp, positive, immediate impact upon 
public opinion. His talent could run freely ; he did not have to hem and 
haw and to stutter ; he was saying what he wanted to say and fighting 
battles that he wanted to win. He was fortunate, too, that the Repub- 
lican Party was in power during the decade in which these cartoons 
were drawn. For, as he himself has pointed out in an article written 
for the Encyclopedia Britannica, "the cartoon of approbation is rarely 
successful." In the present collection there are barely live out of a total 
of sixty-five which express direct approval of anyone or anything. In 
the whole mass of perhaps three thousand cartoons made during the 
Nineteen Twenties, the proportion would be about the same. That does 
not mean that Mr. Kirby or The World newspaper were incapable of 
approving many things, but simply that the cartoon is by its very nature 
a weapon of attack. Even when the cartoonist wishes to exalt his hero, 
he does it most effectively by attacking his hero's enemies. He is in 
many respects an old-fashioned moralist who glorifies God by denounc- 
ing the Devil. 

Thus there is little glorification of the Democratic Party to which, 
in this period, Mr. Kirby and The World gave their nominal allegiance. 
But there is an almost uninterrupted assault on the kind of Republican- 
ism which ruled the country from the election of Warren G. Harding 
to the panic of 1929. The Nineteen Twenties in American politics were 
dominated by the Republican Party within the bounds of its commit- 
ments in 1920. It was for isolation in the world, for high protection at 
home, and for prohibition. Against these pillars of Republicanism The 
World directed its fire, and the biggest gun in the attack was the Kirby 
cartoon. This book, then, is a collection of the biggest shells fired in 
protest against the irresponsibility and the corruption, the provincialism 
and the sectarianism, the materialism and the hypocrisy of the post- 
war decade. 

Through these cartoons, better than through any other medium, the 
American feelings of protest and outrage found expression. The sus- 
tained campaign waged by The World against the spirit and quality 
of the Nineteen Twenties did not defeat the Republican power ; while 
the great boom lasted, Republicanism was immune to argument and 
invincible to attack. But the campaign did much to make articulate an 
opposition which gradually deprived the ruling Republicans of the sup- 
port of the intelligence of the country. While the boom lasted they could 

[xiv] 



obtain the necessary votes, but as the decade wore on they were steadily 
losing the respect of the voters. At the end of the Coolidge Era they 
were sustained largely by a fatuous promise to keep the boom booming. 
They had no stronger hold upon the affection or the conscience of the 
nation. 

If, as now seems likely, the governing ideas of the Nineteen Twenties 
are to be liquidated, these cartoons will have an important place among 
the forces which prepared America for the change. They helped to 
make ridiculous, and not a little odious, the men who taught the coun- 
try to think it could prosper and be safe in despite of mankind. They 
helped to expose the underlying meanness and self-complacency of the 
days when the new economic era was promoting a frenzy of greedy 
speculation. They were supremely effective in insisting upon the 
ignoble character of prohibition and the profound demoralization 
which it has entailed. These cartoons deserve to be remembered, for 
they were hard blows delivered in good causes. 

Though they were meant to hurt and to confound, yet they are 
never venomous. They are never embittered to the point, which is so 
often reached in other great political cartoons, where the cartoonist 
deprives his victim of all human standing. The thing which The 
World cared about most, deeper than any of its political convictions, 
was the restoration of tolerance after the phobias and hatreds of the 
war. In these cartoons the only figure which is treated without mercy 
is the black-hatted symbol of Intolerance itself. In all the rest there is 
an antiseptic humor which keeps clean the wounds inflicted. 

These are civilized cartoons. They originate with a talent in which 
great natural force is tempered by the absence of all self-righteousness. 
They are great examples of how the liberty of opinion can be effec- 
tively exercised. For they carry on the best political tradition of the 
English-speaking world, which is that the uncompromising advocacy 
of opinion is quite compatible with a willingness to go on living in 
the same world with one's opponent, that disagreement of parties does 
not imply the dissolution of the community, and that deep differences 
need not lead to irreparable divisions. 

Walter Lippmann 

August, 1 93 1 



[xv] 



EDITORIAL NOTE 

It is with unabated pleasure that I sit down to make even the final revisions 
on this book. For Mr. Kirby's cartoons have a way of keeping their freshness. 
I believe they will be found to possess the same quality that characterizes any 
really enduring piece of writing, the ultimate test of which is that at any 
time subsequent to first reading it, one may pick it up and read at random. 
Mr. Lippmann has naturally laid his emphasis on the polemic quality of 
these cartoons; but, without disparaging their importance in relation to issues 
already dead and issues still living, I cannot help feeling that they will improve 
with age. For they are history — they are a small but vivid part of the life we 
have all lived; and even the villains in these pages will be loved by our de- 
scendants. I feel a sort of affection for some of them already. 

If I may be permitted to be personal for a moment, I should like to express 
my appreciation of what it has meant to come in contact with such men as 
Rollin Kirby and Walter Lippmann, and to be, if not actually present, at 
least in the offing at the end of The World. Near enough to feel the whole 
episode rather keenly, down to the last morning of ransacking for cartoons 
in the deserted and forlorn tower of the Pulitzer Building. 

H.B.H. 
October 12, 1931 



<lA Cartoon History of the Nineteen Twenties 



^^ 




'ifik ah 




wmm 



wmm§& 

WMMm 



WmmS 






"I AM THE GODDESS OF PEACE" 

/4pn7 //, /920 



[3] 



New York, January 16. — Broadway and other parts of the city were 
not so hilarious when the clamp went down on the sale of liquor at 
midnight. ... It was an evening of sad reminiscence. . . . The orches- 
tras in hotels and restaurants played funeral dirges at midnight. . . . 
A dozen men; with one good-looking, well-dressed girl among them. 
. . . The girl was an unusual sight, leaning up against the bar. Such a 
thing was never seen in that bar before. . . . Although drinkers were 
not numerous, liquor brought sky-high prices. Ordinary drinks all 
over the city sold from 75c to $1.50. 

Washington, January 16. — William J. Bryan, Secretary of Navy 
Daniels, Commissioner Kramer, Senators Kenyon, Owen, Sterling 
and Sheppard, Representatives Volstead, Fess, . . . and Wayne B. 
Wheeler of the Anti-Saloon League were among those present at the 
burial of John Barleycorn at midnight to-night at the First Congrega- 
tional Church. On the stroke of twelve, after five hours of speeches, 
joyful demonstrations and rejoicings, silence fell on the congregation 
while the Demon passed away. 

The World, January 17, 1920 



"The question was not tested. The opponents of National Prohibi- 
tion never fought their battle. They chose to lose it by default." 

Charles Merz in The Dry Decade (page 212) 



[4] 




'NOW THEN, ALL TOGETHER, 'MY COUNTRY 'TIS OF THEE'" 

January n, 1920 



[5] 



"Mr. Wilson and his dynasty, his heirs and assigns, or anybody that 
is his, anybody who with bent knee has served his purposes, must be 
driven from all control, from all influence as upon the Government 
of the United States. 

"We have stopped Mr. Wilson's Treaty, and the question goes to the 
people. In 1916, Mr. Wilson won on the cry that he kept us out of 
war. He now demands the approval of the American people on the 
ground that he kept us out of peace. 



"Many vital economic measures and especially protective tariff legis- 
lation to guard our industries, are impossible with a Democratic free 
trader of socialistic proclivities in the White House." 

From Senator Lodge's keynote speech as Temporary Chairman of the 
Republican National Convention, June 8 



[6] 


TEACHING HIM WHAT TO SAY 

February i, 1920 



[7] 



On March 19, after more than eight months of confused discussion, 
the Senate returned unratified to the President the Treaty that the 
Peace Conference had worked nearly a year to frame. 



"In consequence the treaty-making power of the United States is in- 
operative. The government of the United States can win a great war, 
it could negotiate a great peace ; but it is incapable of ratifying any kind 
of peace, because the Senate is unable to perform its constitutional 
functions. 

"There have been humiliating episodes in the history of the United 
States, but nothing else that was quite so humiliating as this; nothing 
else that so sharply challenged the capacity of the American people 
for self-government; nothing else that so sweepingly indicted their 
natural self-respect and their sense of responsibility. On the whole, the 
records of the Senate since the treaty of Versailles was formally sub- 
mitted by President Woodrow Wilson, July 10, 1919, constitute the 
most mortifying chapter in American history. 

"So far as the United States Senate is concerned, the dead of this war 
have died in vain." 

From the leading editorial in The World, March 22, 1920 



[8] 




THE ACCUSER 



March 22, 1920 



[9] 



About the only thing which the leaders 
are certain of is that Mr. Bryan will not 
be nominated. He said yesterday while 
en route to San Francisco, where he is 
due to-night or to-morrow, that he is not 
a candidate, because he has "more im- 
portant work to do." By "more impor- 
tant work" he is understood to mean 
construction of the platform, the charac- 
ter of which will determine the type of 
candidate to be nominated for the Pres- 
idency. 

Not many of the leaders appear to be 
afraid of Mr. Bryan this time. He is 
regarded as a negative rather than a 
positive force. 

Louis Seibold, covering the Convention 
for The World, June 25 



[10] 




BACK IN DEATH VALLEY 



June 24, 1920 



["] 



On June 29, Senator Harding, in Washington, and Governor 
Coolidge, in Northampton, made their first campaign speeches into 
recording phonographs, the records to be distributed for use on Inde- 
pendence Day. Governor Coolidge spoke on "Law and Order". Sen- 
ator Harding spoke on "Americanism", closing with this little 
thought: 

"Call it the selfishness of nationality if you will. 
I think it an inspiration to patriotic devotion — 

"To safeguard America first 
To stabilize America first 
To prosper America first 
To think of America first 
To exalt America first 
To live for and revere America first 

"Let the Internationalist dream and the Bolshevist destroy. God 
pity him 'for whom no minstrel raptures dwell'.* In the spirit of 
the Republic we proclaim Americanism and acclaim America." 

In his speech of acceptance, three weeks later, he added : "Much has 
been said of late about world ideals, but I prefer to think of the ideal 
for America. . . . Ours is not only a fortunate people, but a common- 
sensical people, with vision high, but with their feet on the earth." 



Sic. This may just possibly have been the fault of the Times proofreader. 

[12] 

THE CANNED CANDIDATE IN ACTION 

July i, 1920 



[13] 



Senator Harding's speech of acceptance was delivered on July 22, 
from the front porch of his home in Marion: It was a masterpiece. As 
the Sun and New Yor\ Herald put it, "There will be few who will 
not feel confidence in his robust honesty and solid Americanism." He 
said in part: 

"We must stabilize and strive for normalcy, else the inevitable re- 
action will bring its train of sufferings, disappointments and reversals." 

"I believe in the protective tariff policy, and know we will be calling 
for its saving Americanism again." 

"I like to rejoice in an American conscience and in a big conception 
of our obligations to liberty, justice and civilization. . . . But I have 
confidence in an America that needs no council of Foreign Powers to 
point the way of America's duty. ... I promise you formal and effec- 
tive peace, so quickly as a Republican Congress can pass its declaration 
for a Republican executive to sign. Then we may turn to our readjust- 
ment at home and proceed deliberately and reflectively to that hope for 
world relationship which shall satisfy both conscience and aspiration, 
and still hold us free from menacing involvement." 



"Senator Harding is to be congratulated upon his firm and emphatic 
stand against the proposed league. His words strike an answering 
chord with every American." 

Senator Hiram Johnson, at San Francisco, July 23 



"Mr. Harding has unconditionally surrendered to Johnson and 
Borah. He has thrown over Mr. Taft and taken sides with Senator 
Knox. He has gone back on the majority of Republican senators — 
including himself — and given in to a small minority." 

Answering chord struck in the editorial columns of the New Yor\ Times, the same day. 



[Hi 




'GAINST THE LEAGUE, AIN'T YOU, WARREN?" 

July 26, 1920 



ti5l 



Washington, August 26. — Without pomp or ceremony, Secretary 
Colby to-day signed the proclamation declaring the woman (suffrage) 
amendment "to all intents and purposes as part of the constitution of 
the United States". The Secretary's signature was affixed to the proc- 
lamation at his home at 8 o'clock this morning, a few hours after he 
had received from Governor Roberts of Tennessee the certificate that 
final favorable action had been taken by the Legislature of that State, 
completing the final 36. 

The World, August 27 



[l6] 










THE END OF THE CLIMB 



[i7l 



Washington, December 22. — Emer- 
gency protective tariff rates on products 
of agriculture exceeding in some in- 
stances the rates carried in the Payne- 
Aldrich Tariff Act are provided in a 
bill passed to-night by the House by a 
vote of 196 to 86. A determined fight 
will be made to obtain the measure's 
passage in the Senate — where it will 
meet strong opposition — strong enough, 
it is believed, to defeat it. "Through the 
House by Christmas and through the 
Senate by New Year's Day", was the 
slogan adopted by a group of Western 
Representatives who got behind the 
measure. 



When the measure was put before the 
House to-day for debate, Representative 
Madden (111., Rep.), declared he had 
been informed that if the bill was passed 
lamb chops now costing 65 cents will be 
raised to $1.30, or doubled, and that the 
cost of clothing .... would be increased 
100 per cent. The farmers, Mr. Madden 
added, will not get the benefit of the 
high duties on wool, which product was 
said to have been in the hands of the 
people who have been buying it. 

Representative Garner (Dem., Tex.) 
defended the Tariff Bill, declaring it was 
favored by 95 to 100 per cent of the 
people in his district. He argued that 
it was a measure for revenue rather 



than for the establishment of the Re- 
publican protective theory. 

Representative Crisp (Dem., Georgia) 
said he was informed that foreign pea- 
nuts sold in Norfolk for 3 cents a 
pound, while the people in the country 
nearby could not raise them for less 
than 6 and 7 cents a pound. 

Representative Treadway (Rep., Miss.) 
frankly admitted he did not expect the 
tariff measure ever to be passed. . . . 
"A tariff bill cannot be made between 
sunrise and sunset, and that, I am sorry 
to say, is what the Ways and Means 
Committee has done. . . ." 



The House defeated a proposition of- 
fered by Representative Newton (Rep., 
Minn.) to provide that the 30-cent duty 
on wheat . . . should not apply on con- 
tracts made prior to December 20. 



Representative Quinn (Dem., Miss.) 
said the framers of the bill were playing 
politics with the farmer. "This is just 
putting the harpoon into him under 
false pretenses," Mr. Quinn added. He 
further described the measure as a 
"trap" to catch Democrats. 

The World, December 23, 1920 



The bill was subsequently passed, and 
vetoed by President Wilson. 



[18] 










SELLING HIM ANOTHER GOLD BRICK 

December 24, 1920 



[19] 



"The end of a period which has seemed to substitute words for 
things, and the beginning of a period of real patriotism and true 
national honor." 

Calvin Coolidge, in a statement made the day after the election 

The senatorial voting as a whole is a tremendous compliment to the 
leadership of Senator Henry Cabot Lodge. . . . The Senate will now 
stand so strongly hostile to Wilsonism that little vestige of it will be 
left, once the 67th Congress gets functioning. 

Boston Transcript, November 3, 1920 



"To establish the state of technical peace without further delay I 
should approve a declaratory resolution" — the Knox Resolution — "by 
Congress to that erTect, with the qualifications essential to protect all 
our rights. Such actions would be the simplest keeping of faith with 
ourselves, and could in no sense be construed as a desertion of these 
with whom we shared our sacrifices in war, for these powers are al- 
ready at peace." 

"With the supergoverning League definitely rejected and with the 
world so informed, we may proceed to negotiate the covenanted rela- 
tionships so essential to the recognition of all the rights everywhere of 
our own Nation and play our full part in joining the peoples of the 
world in the pursuits of peace once more." 

President Harding, in his message to Congress, April 12, 1921 

"It seems to The World that Mr. Harding tried in his inaugural 
address to interpret in general terms the attitude of the dominant fac- 
tion of the Republican party towards the questions for which it must 
now provide constructive policies. That faction is highly conservative. 
It can rightly be described as reactionary." 

The World, editorially, March 5 



The word "normalcy" seems to have been coined by Mr. Harding in his speech of acceptance, as 
quoted on p. 14, the previous July. It is one of the decade's outstanding contributions to the American 
language. 



[20] 







43SS9*. 



TRIUMPHAL ENTRY INTO NORMALCY 

April 14, 1921 



[«] 



"The urgency for an instant tariff enactment, emergent in character 
and understood by our people that it is for the emergency only, cannot 
be too much emphasized. I believe in the protection of American in- 
dustry, and it is our purpose to prosper America first. The privileges 
of the American market to the foreign producers are offered far too 
cheaply to-day, and the effect on much of our productivity is the de- 
struction of our own self-reliance, which is the foundation of the inde- 
pendence and good fortune of our people." 

President Harding's opening message, April 12 

Washington, April 20. — The Southern Tariff Association, claiming 
representation of almost every variety of enterprise in. the South, to-day 
appealed to President Harding and Congress for a protective tariff, 
which, it was declared, was imperatively necessary to save the South 
from "the throes of an economic disaster of unparalleled intensity." 

N. Y. Times (Financial Section), April 21, 1921 



A special session of Congress was called on April 12; and one of the first 
things on the calendar was the resurrection of the Fordney Emergency Tariff 
Bill, which had been killed by President Wilson in December. This was passed 
without amendment in three days. The bill was then put through the Senate, 
strongly backed by Senator Penrose, and signed by President Harding 
(May 27). 



[22] 




CURES ALL THE ILLS OF MAN OR BEAST 

April 21, 1921 



[23] 



Washington, Feb. 19. — On the eve of a 
new start by the Ways and Means Com- 
mittee in preparation of the administra- 
tive features of the Soldier Bonus Bill, 
a quiet movement is in progress to ob- 
tain the President's support for a post- 
ponement of the whole question until 
the next fiscal year, when, it is thought, 
sufficient money may be saved by re- 
duction of military expenses and other 
cost of the Government to pay the bonus 
out of current revenues. 

One thing is clear. Unless the Repub- 
lican leaders can be frightened into ac- 
tion by members who fear election re- 
sults, there will be no bonus legislation 
that carries additional taxation or a 
bond issue. There is a possibility that 
a bonus bill will be passed without a 
provision for revenue. 

Unless the President changes his 
views, the prospects of effective bonus 
legislation in this session would appear 
small. A sales tax is the only plan of 
raising the money that is acceptable to 
Mr. Harding. But Republican Senate 
leaders say a sales tax cannot pass in 
the Senate even if the House should ac- 
cept the plan. If by chance a bonus bill 
with a sales tax provision should be sent 
to the Senate, it is believed that Treas- 
ury certificates or a short-term bond is- 
sue will be substituted for it. . . . Many 
Republicans believe that the President 
would sign such a bill. . . . 

There will be no hurry by the Ways 
and Means Committee to write the taxa- 
tion features of the bonus bill. The policy 
of waiting for the "reaction back home" 
may prevent the committee from report- 
ing the bonus bill before the middle of 
next month. 

The committee is considering a revi- 
sion of the insurance plan to make it 



more attractive and lead more to take 
it instead of cash payments. The Ford- 
ney Bonus Bill, introduced early in the 
session, is being used as the framework 
for the bonus plan. Under its terms all 
veterans of the World War, below the 
rank of Captain in the Army and 
Marine Corps and Lieutenant in the 
Navy, whether disabled or not, would 
be allowed to choose from these different 
plans of compensation: 

1. Cash payment plan. . . . 

2. Adjusted service certificates. . . . 

3. Vocational training aid. . . . 

4. Farm or home aid. . . . 

5. Land settlement aid. . . . 

Special to the New York 
Times, Feb. 20 



Washington, April 22. — After the con- 
ference of Finance Committee Republi- 
cans to-day Chairman McCumber said: 

"I do not think that under any cir- 
cumstances the bill will provide for any 
additional taxes. My belief is that we 
can get enough out of the foreign debt 
to take care of the bonus, but I don't 
want to depend entirely upon that." 

He added that a provision might be 
made for paying cash to men entitled to 
not more than $100 in adjusted service 
pay. 

McCumber expressed the opinion that 
when the committee had decided upon a 
bonus plan it would be presented to 
President Harding for his views. He did 
not think the Executive had made up his 
mind to veto any bonus bill that did 
not specifically provide for means of 
financing it. 

Ibid., April 23 



In May, 1924, Congress passed the 
bonus bili over President Coolidge's veto. 



[24] 




THE GREAT VOTE-GETTING ACT 

March ii, 1922 



[25] 



Philadelphia, March 2. — American 
Legion posts throughout the state have 
mailed protests or expressions of regret 
to Senator Pepper, following his recent 
statement of his position on the bonus 
in the Senate. 

Most of the communications are copies 
of resolutions adopted by the posts, con- 
demning the Senator's attitude. Some 
strongly censure him, while others only 
regret that he has taken this stand. In- 
dividuals also sent letters to him. 

According to estimates made at State 
headquarters at least 90 per cent of the 
Pennsylvania members are in favor of 
the bonus. 

N. Y. Times, March 3 



Washington, March 9. — Representa- 
tive Knight of Ohio, in his speech 
against the bonus bill to-day, admitted 
that efforts to defeat the measure would 
be futile. 

"We shall not only fail in our 
opposition," he added, "but we shall be 
misunderstood, and so far has it become 
possible for a class to organize and 
dominate Congress that there will be 
few votes cast against the measure. 

"Indeed, it is exceedingly doubtful if 
the man who opposes this bill had not 
better now say farewell to his political 
ambitions. If we may believe the press 
reports, we have now reached the point 
where, amid the applause of the unthink- 
ing multitude, the head of the American 
Legion uses language to the President 
of the United States which might have 
been expected from a Captain of the 
Pretorian Guard to a weak and pusil- 
lanimous Emperor of decadent Rome, 
but hardly to the Chief Executive of 
this great Republic. Presumption of 
class rights could scarcely go further." 

Ibid., March 10 



Hanford MacNider, National Com- 
mander of the American Legion, sent 
this telegram from Mason City, Iowa, 
to President Harding to-day: 

"The American Legion, speaking for 
nearly 5,000,000 returned service men 



and women and fifteen to twenty million 
more of their immediate families, who 
do not understand first commitment and 
then retraction, ask that the passage of 
the adjusted compensation bill be no 
longer delayed. Wherever and whenever 
the people of the United States have 
been given an opportunity to voice their 
feeling on this question their answer has 
been unmistakable. 



"It is not a question of tearing down 
the service man's self-respect, it is a 
matter of saving the nation's own." 

Ibid., Feb. 20 



Washington, April 2. — John Thomas 
Taylor, as Vice Chairman of the Na- 
tional Legislative Committee of the 
American Legion, tonight sent a letter 
to each United States Senator, severely 
criticising the referendum recently con- 
ducted by the Chambers of Commerce of 
the United States on the soldiers' bonus 
plan. 

"It does not represent the opinion of 
the business men of the nation," Mr. Tay- 
lor alleges, "but of the big interests. . . ." 

Ibid., April 3 



Washington, April 4. — The House of 
Representatives is so completely domi- 
nated by the Anti-Saloon League that it 
would be useless to ask the House to 
investigate the political activities of the 
organization, Representative Tinkham, 
Republican, of Massachusetts, asserted 
in a speech on the floor this afternoon. 
Therefore, continued Mr. Tinkham, he 
demanded that the Attorney General in- 
vestigate and also prosecute the league 
for alleged violation of the Corrupt 
Practices act in failing to file the proper 
lists of campaign expenses. . . . Repre- 
sentative Tinkham's speech gave oppor- 
tunity for a cross fire of questions and 
answers between himself and Represent- 
ative John Philip Hill of Baltimore, in 
which the two "wets" made laughable 
allusions to Wayne B. Wheeler, execu- 
tive agent of the league, who sat smil- 



ing in the gallery. After the Tinkham 
speech Mr. Wheeler made a reply to it. 
"Dry" leaders such as Cooper of Ohio, 
Crampton of Michigan and Barkley of 
Kentucky, made short speeches deploring 
the Tinkham speech, which they 
answered resentfully. . . . Representative 
Stafford of Wisconsin said he was much 
interested in ascertaining details of 
Anti-Saloon League expenditures in his 
State "because certain organizations 
have used thousands of dollars against 
me in times past." 

Ibid., April 5 



Washington, April 22. — "The most 
slimy creature which disgraces Ameri- 
can politics is the man who buys office 
by paying for it out of the public treas- 
ury and charges his venal political ob- 
ligations to the taxpayers," was a part 
of the answer that Senator William E. 
Borah of Idaho made to the American 
Legion post of Pocatello, which threat- 
ened to drive him out of public life un- 
less he voted to pay a bonus to the vet- 
erans of the World War. Such a threat, 
Senator Borah added in his reply to the 
post, "reflected no credit upon you and 
it has had no effect whatever upon me." 

The demand upon Borah was made by 
telegraph. His reply . . . was made pub- 
lic, not by him, but by the post. . . . 

Ibid., April 23 



Washington, April 30. — Announce- 
ment was made to-night by the Legisla- 
tive Committee of the Anti-Saloon 
League that a nation-wide campaign 
would be conducted in the congressional 
elections to bring about the election of 
members favorable to prohibition. The 
announcement, signed by James Cannon, 
Jr., Wayne B. Wheeler, E. H. Cherring- 
ton, A. J. Borton, William H. Anderson 
and Purley A. Baker, declares that 
thirty-four organizations are working 
to discredit prohibition and the friends 
of dry legislation must be vigilant and 
active. 

Ibid., May 1 



[26] 


THE RIVAL RINGMASTERS 



April 30, 1922 



[27] 



Washington, June 2. — Harry M. Daugh- 
erty's resignation would be a highly ac- 
ceptable political present to most of the 
Republican Senators and members of 
the House who are facing hard fights 
for re-election. This desire to be re- 
lieved of the embarrassment which at- 
tacks on Daugherty are causing the 
candidates is heard in conversations 
wherever a few of them get together. 



All this at a time, as one angry Re- 
publican points out, when the Democrats 
are terribly hard up for good issues on 
which to attempt to arouse the people. 
The constant harping on the Newberry 
case.* . . . 

Mr. Daugherty, according to the Re- 
publicans who are irritated over the sit- 
uation, has only to blame himself for 
the present attacks on him in connec- 
tion with the Morse case. Senator Cara- 
way had no inside information when he 
began his drive on the Attorney-Gen- 
eral. 



It was Senator Tom Watson's denun- 
ciation of Herbert Hoover that brought 
the White House statement to-day, but 
it served to call up the whole series of 
recent events. . . . And it was made 
evident . . . that the President was 
thoroughly vexed. . . . The White House 
spokesman declared that Mr. Harding 
felt, as one who understood the work- 
ings of the press, that he was warranted 
in directing criticism at the Washing- 
ton newspaper men. The trouble with 
them, it was declared, was that they 
gave too much space to the critics. 

That, it was said, was all wrong. That 
was not helping to better the world. 
Why, it was asked, should they not de- 
vote their attention to things worth 
while and cease to encourage those who 
criticise unjustly and who belittle those 
undertakings which represent a sincere 
desire to achieve better things? 

New York Tribune, June 3, 1922 
(Carter Field) 



* Newberry, Senator Truman H. See page 92. 



[28] 







NO APPETITE 



June ii, 1922 



[29] 



While President Harding and Prohibi- 
tion Commissioner Haynes in Washington 
discussed the menace of liquor smuggling 
yesterday; while Acting Prohibition 
Director Moss of New Jersey conferred 
in Manhattan with Acting Prohibition 
Director Yellowley; while efforts were 
made to get the revenue cutters Man- 
hattan and Calumet to sea: 

While all that proceeded on land a fleet 
of twenty-three ocean-going vessels lay 
off Sandy Hook, outside the three-mile 
limit, their skippers in cut-throat com- 
petition to sell their liquor to local rum- 
runners before more ships arrived and 
forced the price still further down. 

With only twenty-two vessels lying at 
anchor Tuesday, a gentlemen's agree- 
ment was kept and there was no cutting 
the wholesale price. But at dawn yes- 
terday a battered tramp, her one fun- 
nel belching smoke as she wallowed un- 
der forced draught, was sighted from 
Newfoundland-way. 

She reached the anchorage grounds, 
throttled to half-speed, and hove to al- 
most in the centre of the long line of 
vessels that stretched in a semi-circle 
out to the horizon and back. 

Observers in nearby boats heard her 
anchor chains rattle as the mudhook 
dropped, and then a long rectangular 
piece of canvas was seen being pushed 
out of the forward hold. . . . On the 
canvas was painted in huge black let- 
ters ' 

CHAMPAGNE, $55. Case 
SCOTCH, $40. RYE, $35 

The twenty-two vessels from the 
Bahamas had been charging a far high- 
er price. 

During the night a mosquito fleet of 
300 motor boats had been running be- 
tween the anchored convoy and shore, 
landing cargoes to motor trucks parked 
in lonely points between Highland and 
Atlantic Highlands, N. J. 



In half an hour the word had gone 



from vessel to vessel. Eight bells had 
barely sounded before impromptu signs 
were hanging from a dozen schooners 
and sloops. One, typical, read: 

"Buze— Rye — 34— Scots — 38 — Cheap 
buze here". . . . The master of an old 
two-masted schooner, who was out of 
paint for the first time in his life, placed 
his quartermaster in the crow's nest and 
his "second" on the poop, each with a 
megaphone. They alternated in shouting 
to the bootleggers: "Real booze cheap 
here — Scotch for $37.50." 

The World, Saturday, Jan. 13 



Washington, September 16 (Special to 
the New York Times) . — A detailed study 
of the so-called "invisible" exports and 
imports of the U. S. and foreign coun- 
tries for the year 1922 has just been 
completed by the Department of Com- 
merce. . . . 

It is the intention of the department 
to make such a study and report each 
year and the Government experts are 
anxious that private financial institu- 
tions cooperate. 

Secretary Hoover in a review of the 
report declared that if the United 
States settled its balances in foreign 
trade and international finances every 
month in the year in gold "we should 
have exported gold to the amount of 
nearly $340,000,000 during the year in- 
stead of having imported gold and sil- 
ver to the amount of $246,000,000." 



The report refers to the smuggling of 
liquor into the United States but does 
not include the item in its calculations. 

"Estimates vary from $10,000,000 to 
$250,000,000", the report says. "There 
are plausible statistics that indicated 
that the value of smuggled spirits can- 
not be less than $20,000,000." 

New York Times, Monday, Sep- 
tember 17, 1923 



[30] 



THE VOLSTEAD MARKET DAY 



(Reprinted from T^f World, July 25, 1921) 

January 18, 1923 



1921-1923-19 — ? 



[31] 



Having the previous year made a 2200-mile hop from San Diego to 
Indianapolis, Lieutenants John A. Macready and Oakley G. Kelly 
made on May 2-3 the first non-stop flight across the continent, in the 
Army plane T-2. Lieutenant Doolittle's flight from Pablo Beach, 
Florida, to San Diego, was broken by a stop at Kelly Field, Texas. 

The fliers left Roosevelt Field, Long Island, at 1 137 P. M. Daylight 
Saving Time, passed Dayton, Ohio, at 5 =55 Central Time, St. Louis at 
9:15, Kansas City at 12:10 A. M., Tucumcari, New Mexico, 7:50 
Mountain Time, Wickenburg, Arizona at 10:20, and landed at Rock- 
well Field, San Diego, at 12:27 Pacific Time. Distance flown, 2700 
miles in 26 hours and 50 minutes. 

The World commented editorially: 

"By this unbroken flight from Mineola to San Diego in less than 
27 hours, Lieuts. Kelly and Macready brought California at least three 
days nearer New York. For distances are to be measured not merely in 
miles but in the actual time required to traverse them, whether by cov- 
ered wagon, railroad trains, steamship, automobile, or aeroplane. When 
Kearney led his expedition from the Missouri River to San Diego, his 
small force spent months crossing the weary waste of New Mexico and 
Arizona. The army has now proved that by air the far longer journey 
from coast to coast can be covered almost between noon and noon. 
Speed is the insistent enemy of space. 

"The World War marked a long stage in the development of avia- 
tion. We have progressed far in certain directions since then. But the 
United States has been slower to profit by the commercial advantages 
of the business of flying than either England or France. Primarily the 
fault has been the lack of Government encouragement and assistance. 
If Congress is alive to its duty it will not continue to starve the Air 
Service. There is no other source from which constant support can be 
expected." 



[32] 







THE SANTA F£ TRAIL 



M#y 5, / 92 j 



[33] 



ISOLATIONISTS PIN HOPES OF 

KILLING WORLD COURT PLAN 

ON SIX RESERVATIONS 

By Charles Michelson, Staff Correspond- 
ent on The World. 

Washington, May 13. — What the isola- 
tionists hope may be the death warrant 
for President Harding's plan for our 
adhesion to the Permanent Court of 
International Justice has been written. 

In its tentative form it comprises six 
reservations, the last of which Senator 
Lodge considers a masterpiece, for in 
one swipe it is hoped to make the project 
unacceptable to the Democrats, without 
whose almost unanimous cooperation 
the President's plan cannot go through, 
and to insure against its acceptance by 
the League of Nations itself. 

Here is the Big Bertha of the isola- 
tionists' attack: 

"That the Senate of the United States 
advises and consents to the adhesion of 
the United States to the protocol of De- 
cember 16, 1920, provided it be under- 
stood that future vacancy among the 
judges or deputy judges of the Perma- 
nent Court of International Justice shall 
be filled by the Nations, members of the 
Court, acting severally and independent- 
ly, each sovereign nation having an 
equal vote in such selection." 



t34l 




THE BOMB MAKER 



May 1$, 1923 



[35] 



"With respect to Europe, our policy 
has continued to be, in the phrase of 
Jefferson: 'Peace, commerce and honest 
friendship with all nations, entangling 
alliances with none!' „ . . Though vic- 
tors" (in the World War) "we have 
sought neither territory nor general rep- 
arations. Our people have borne their 
own burdens and in large part are bear- 
ing the burdens of others. . . . We have 
the deepest sympathy with the people 
of France; we warmly cherish their an- 
cient friendship. We desire to see 
France prosperous and secure, with her 
wounds healed and her just demands 
satisfied. We desire to see a united and 
prosperous Germany, with a will to 
peace, making amends to the full extent 
of her power and obtaining the appro- 
priate rewards of her labor and skill. 
. . . Generally, our policies towards 
Europe may thus be summarized: We 
are still opposed to alliances. We refuse 
to commit ourselves to the employment 
of the power of the United States in 
unknown contingencies. We reserve our 
judgment to act upon occasion as our 
sense of duty permits. . . ." 

Secretary of State Hughes, in an 
address before the American 
Academy of Political and Social 
Science and the Philadelphia 
Forum, November 30. As quoted 
in The World December 1 



President Coolidge, in his first mes- 
sage, Dec. 6, touched on the League as 
follows : 

"Our country has definitely refused to 
adopt and ratify the Covenant of the 
League of Nations. We have not felt 
warranted in assuming the responsibili- 
ties which its members have assumed. 
I am not proposing any change in this 
policy, neither is the Senate. The inci- 
dent, so far as we are concerned, is 
closed. The League exists as a foreign 
agency. We hope it will be helpful. But 
the United States sees no reason to 
limit its own freedom and independence 
of action by joining it. We shall do well 
to recognize this basic fact in all na- 
tional affairs and govern ourselves ac- 
cordingly." He went on to speak favor- 
ably of a proposed Permanent World 
Court of Justice, "An American Policy." 



[36] 




"I SYMPATHIZE DEEPLY WITH YOU, MADAME, BUT I CANNOT 

ASSOCIATE WITH YOU" 

December 4, 1923 



[37] 



Washington, April 28. — The leasing 
by the Interior Department of the Tea- 
pot Dome naval oil reserves in Wyoming 
will probably be investigated by a Sen- 
ate Committee. 

This was indicated this afternoon by 
Senator Poindexter, Acting Chairman 
of the Committee on Naval Affairs, fol- 
lowing a scathing attack on Secretary 
Fall's department by Senator LaFol- 
lette, who declared that unless it acted 
quickly the Administration might find 
itself facing another "Ballinger" scan- 
dal. The Interior Department, he assert- 
ed, is the "sluiceway for 90 per cent of 
the corruption in this country." 

"The leases are so framed as to en- 
able the great special interests to with- 
draw the oil, which belongs to the peo- 
ple, and sell it back to the Government 
at exorbitant prices. . . ." 

Front page, N. Y. Times, 
April 29, 1922 



President Harding had the previous 
autumn authorized the transfer of the 
lands to the Department of the Interior, 
and the leases had been signed on April 
7, though it was about a week before 
they were made public or even an- 
nounced. On January 2, 1923, Secretary 
Fall announced his resignation, to take 
effect in March. The investigation ac- 
complished nothing in the least startling 
for over a year and a half. In his mes- 
sage of June 8, 1922, President Harding 
assumed full responsibility for the 
transaction. 

On December 27, 1923, Harry F. Sin- 
clair declined to answer questions re- 
garding the formation of companies to 
handle the reserves. Both he and Fall 
issued formal denials of any considera- 
tion having passed between them per- 
sonally. 



1924 

Washington, Jan. 21. — Archie Roose- 
velt told the Senate Committee investi- 
gating the Teapot Dome Oil Lease this 
afternoon he had quit the Sinclair Oil 
Companies because of what had been re- 
vealed as to the leasing of the naval 
reserve — to put it bluntly, he has such 
grave suspicions of the processes by 
which Sinclair obtained the naval lease 
that he felt he could not, in justice to 
himself, remain in his employ. 

Special Dispatch to The World 
(Charles Michelson) 



Washington, March 6. — Teapot Dome 
and the Doheny oil lease will reach the 
stage of criminal prosecution on April 
1, when a Special Grand Jury will be 
impaneled in the District of Columbia to 
examine the evidence accumulated by 
the two special counsel of the Govern- 
ment. 

Prior to that Mr. Pomerene and Mr. 
Roberts will go to the Pacific Coast, 
stopping at Cheyenne, Wyo., to file their 
civil suit for the annulment of the Sin- 
clair lease. In the Southern California 
District they will request cancellation 
of the lease for Naval Reserve No. 2. 



Subordinate in interest . . . was a 
mass of additional telegrams, also pro- 
duced at to-day's session of the Public 
Lands Committee, with these outstand- 
ing aspects: 

1. Ex-Secretary Fall, McLean's guest 
at Palm Beach, was in communication 
with Chairman Lenroot (R., Wis.), and 
Senator Smoot (R., Utah) of the inves- 
tigating committee, who previously had 
admitted seeing Fall secretly at his 
apartment here just before he retreated 
to Palm Beach and cloaked himself in 
silence, refusing to testify. 

Fall also was communicating with Col. 
J. W. Zeveley, Harry F. Sinclair's at- 
torney, with E. L. Doheny, Jr., warning 
him on January 11 that "Walsh, author- 
ized to take testimony, will examine Mc- 
Lean and probably myself. Facts will be 
developed, possibly names not re- 
vealed." . . . 

The World, March 7 



Dishonest governments, the President 
tersely pointed out, do not introduce 
budget systems, cut down taxes, purge 
payrolls, or reduce the public debt. 

"That is not the way of dishonesty," 
he said. "The government is sound, but 
individuals charged with wrongdoing 
are being prosecuted. The people of this 
country hate corruption. They know my 
position. They know the law will be 
enforced." 

From President Coolidge's accept- 
ance of the nomination, Aug. 14, 
as reported by Carter Field in the 
newly merged N. Y. Herald 
Tribune 



[38] 




'UGH!" 



January 30, 1924 



[39] 



Washington, April 25. — Unexpected 
speed shown in considering the Tax Re- 
duction Bill in the Senate today brought 
Republicans face to face with the politi- 
cal problem resulting from the Mellon 
plan by Republican House leaders and 
its continued support by Administration 
leaders in the Senate. . . . The crisis the 
administration is approaching in deal- 
ing with the Western insurgent atti- 
tude on the tax problem, as well as on 
other party issues, was emphasized in 
an announcement by Senator Brookhart 
of Iowa that the Progressives favored 
a higher surtax rate than is included in 
the Democratic plan. They will fight to 
bring this about. 

The World, April 26 



Traitors within the Republican party 
"who masquerade in our uniform to be 
better able to stab us in the back" were 
assailed last night by Nathaniel A. Eis- 
berg, retiring President of the National 
Republican Club, at a dinner given at 
the club in his honor. Mr. Eisberg ex- 
tolled President Coolidge as "a man of 
plain living and high thinking, of dry 
humor and hard-headed honesty," who 
will lead the party to success this year. 
Referring to the investigations at Wash- 
ington, Mr. Eisberg said: 

". . . . Let us punish every act of 
wrongdoing, no matter who be hurt. . . . 
But the sinister attack on our institu- 
tions and on every principle of justice 
and fair procedure made by the so- 
called investigating committees which 
have been sitting in Washington, is 
something which no decent citizen can 
justify or stand for." 

N. Y. Times, April 30 



[40] 

PARTY HARMONY 

[41] 



Early this morning while the Demo- 
cratic National Convention was still in 
session a letter was read from William 
G. McAdoo, in which he released his sup- 
porters from any obligation to vote for 
him, but did not withdraw as a can- 
didate. 

Mr. McAdoo in his letter made a plea 
to those who had supported him to resist 
any effort to nominate a candidate of re- 
actionary or wet tendencies. 

Immediately after the letter was read, 
at 2:30 o'clock, a motion to adjourn was 
made, but it was shouted down, and the 
convention prepared to resume balloting 
for the choice of a nominee for President. 
It was then on the 100th ballot. 



At the opening of the night session 



Franklin D. Roosevelt, Governor Smith's 
manager, told the convention that Gov- 
ernor Smith had authorized him to say 
"that immediately upon the withdrawal 
of his name (McAdoo's) Governor Smith 
would withdraw his name also from the 
consideration of the convention." 

This announcement followed an inter- 
view between Governor Smith and Mr. 
McAdoo in the room of former Ambassa- 
dor Hugh C. Wallace in the Ritz-Carlton 
Hotel. 

New York Times, July 9 

When the convention met again in 
the afternoon, it nominated John 
W. Davis in three ballots. This 
practically marks the end of Mr. 
McAdoo as a presidential pos- 
sibility. 



Davis 

McAdoo .... 

Smith 

Underwood 



1st 
Ballot 

31 

431 y 2 

241 

42 y 2 



Highest 
Vote 

839 
530* 
368 
307 



Ballot 

Last 

69th 

76th 

102nd 



99th 
Ballot 

210 
353% 
353 
39% 



* Mr. McAdoo's vote reached a second maximum of 421, on the 96th ballot, the 
announcement of Gov. Smith's willingness to withdraw if he would. 



100th 
Ballot 

203 1/3 
190 
351 y 2 
41% 

third following the 



[42] 


THE SYNTHETIC COWBOY 



July i, 1924 



[43] 



On Board Coolidge Train, August 15. 
— President Coolidge to-night is on his 
way back home to Plymouth, Vt., to take a 
brief vacation, his first since entering 
the White House, more than a year ago. 
. . . Mr. Coolidge is looking forward to 
a return to the routine of Vermont farm 
life with real zest. . . . He wants to 
pitch hay on his father's farm, and do 
the other chores around the old place 
which he was taught by Colonel Coolidge 
when a boy. . . . Secretary Slemp, who 
shoots 18 difficult holes in 90 without 
trouble, is expecting to get down to the 
80 class over at Woodstock. But the 
President prefers the pitchfork to the 
mashie, and an ax to a putter. 

New York Herald Tribune, Aug. 

16. Special Article by Carter 

Field 



Plymouth, Vermont, August 16. — The 
President and Mrs. Coolidge are occupy- 
ing the front bedroom on the upper floor 
of the two-story farm house. It is very 
primitive in this day of electric farm 
plants. Kerosene lamps furnish the 
light. There is no new fangled plumbing. 
Washbowls and pitchers of water pro- 
vide bathing facilities. 



The President learned this morning 
with some regret that the Colonel had 
already gotten in practically all of the 
hay. He had his work cut out for him 
for a few days, however, reading the 
voluminous report of the Tariff Commis- 
sion on sugar. Some members of the 
commission hold one theory and others 
another. 

Ibid., Aug. 17 



Aug. 18. — Representative and Mrs. 
Allan T. Treadway had motored up 
from Stockbridge, Mass., and were wait- 



ing in front of the house with two 
wooden rakes. . . . The Massachusetts 
representative told the President that 
Marshall W. Stedman, an old man of 
Tyringham, Massachusetts, belonged to 
a family which had made rakes by hand 
for four generations . . . and, knowing 
Mr. Coolidge to have been a farmer in 
this dairy country, wanted to give the 
President and his father each a rake. 
"These are very fine hand-made hickory 
rakes," said Mr. Treadway. 

Mr. Coolidge looked carefully at the 
rake handles and crosspieces. "Ash," 
said the President, and after a moment, 
"the teeth are hickory." Mr. Coolidge 
then briefly expressed his apprecia- 
tion. . . . 

Ibid., Aug. 19 



August 19. — Three of the best known 
figures in American life drove up 
through the New England hills to-day to 
pay their respects to Calvin Coolidge. 
Henry Ford, Thomas A. Edison, and 
Harvey J. Firestone. . . . 

President Coolidge gave to Mr. Ford 
a sugar pail he found yesterday in the 
garret of the old farmhouse, where four 
generations of Coolidges lived. . . . On 
the bottom of this bucket, which had 
been branded with . . . the word "J. 
Coolidge" . . . and the word "Plymouth", 
the President wrote out the following 
above his own signature. 

"Made for and used by John Coolidge, 
an original settler of Plymouth who died 
in 1822. Used also by Calvin Coolidge 
in the sugar lot when he was a boy at 
home." 

The visitors then inspected the little 
cheese factory . . . sampling liberally 
samples of cheese in every stage from 
last night's milk. 

Ibid., Aug. 20. 



[44] 



¦ I I I ¦ I I , , ¦!, II I , , I . 1 I I I '¦'» >.l I I ' II HHiyW IW iH in — »»^^^MI 







THE STAGE SET 



AugUSt 22, I924 



[45] 



There is no prospect of President 
Coolidge taking the stump in the com- 
ing campaign, according to William M. 
Butler, Chairman of the Republican 
National Committee and field marshal 
of the Coolidge forces. . . . Aside from 
the radio feature of the Coolidge Cam- 
paign, it will be conducted on lines 
paralleling the second McKinley cam- 
paign, when Mr. McKinley refrained 
from all campaigning with the exception 
of addresses delivered from the front 
porch of his Canton (Ohio) home to 
delegations of political pilgrims. Theo- 
dore Roosevelt, as candidate for Vice- 
President, meanwhile was whirlwind 
campaigning throughout the country. 
In the coming campaign it is proposed 
to have Brig. Gen. Charles G. Dawes, 
running mate of President Coolidge, take 
over Theodore Roosevelt's role in the 
campaign of 1900. 

New York Times, July 18 



"My confidence is based largely on my 
faith that the people are not to be 
stampeded in this election. This immu- 
nity is because they have a more com- 
plete understanding of the fundamentals 
of the Coolidge administration and a 
greater appreciation of the relationship 
between their own material fortunes 
and the character of the national ad- 
ministration than ever before. 

"Men who four years ago knew of the 
millions not only out of work but with- 
out any promise of work, who daily saw 
the closed factories and workshops, and 
who themselves suffered from half-time 
employment with reduced wages, are not 
likely to be led into voting for a return 
of those conditions." 

Ibid., Sept. 5 
William M. Butler speaking 



When Mr. Coolidge leaves the White 
House executive offices in the evening 
his desk is clear, as a rule. He has a 
horror, his associates say, of letting 
work "get ahead of him." During the 
day, after having given one of his sec- 



retaries instructions to do a certain 
thing, he will frequently call the secre- 
tary in, a few minutes later, to make 
sure it has been promptly done. 

"He doesn't like to be hurried at his 
work," I was told. "He isn't afraid of 
any problem, if only he can get time to 
concentrate on it. His faith is that any 
problem can be solved with time. Don't 
picture him as a man to whom work is 
a passion, for that is not true, but just 
as one who is resolved to let nothing in- 
terfere with the completion of his duties. 
. . . He doesn't care particularly for the 
theatre. He doesn't read many books, 
except those dealing with American his- 
tory and political history. He never 
reads for amusement only, to fill an idle 
hour. He has no idle hours. . . . When 
he has visitors, the conversation which 
interests him most has to do with poli- 
tics; and when he sits alone, it is to 
think out the problems of his office. . . ." 
Ibid. From the feature article by 
Samuel McCoy, Sunday, Sept. 14 



Washington, Sept. 16. — Satisfaction 
over the trend of the campaign was ex- 
pressed today by President Coolidge to 
his friends. . . . With reference to the 
statement of William M. Butler . . . 
that no plans had been made for Mr. 
Coolidge to go on a speaking tour, it was 
made plain that in the President's 
opinion no Presidential candidate was 
ever injured by not talking too much. 
Ibid., Sept. 17 



Dudley Field Malone, an Assistant 
Secretary of State and Collector of the 
Port of New York under President Wil- 
son, came out yesterday for Senator La 
Follette and Governor Smith. Mr. 
Malone recently returned from Europe. 



"I really have to admit," he declared, 
"that I prefer President Coolidge to 
John W. Davis on the basis of his pub- 
lic utterances. Mr. Coolidge has said 
nothing at all." 

The World, October 13 



[46] 



8ii& - W#Jfitf? ? *'¦ •¦*• ¦¦¦¦¦ ?¦'¦;¦ * * J ' 7 ^ 

-y. Y .V'/ # j' '/ ,: 



,' » ? 



Br 



3s -J. '.£ 







,-Mj!se?? -...v. >*. , 



•T-^w-4 L - «¦•-.. "¦•"- .,.-.-^-"'^-' r . v ^^^/i^i^.^^''*..- : ^,. ',•¦-. ^•..^r,/' : .s^ ,';..", ;.V'^;.-> 






THE WHIRLWIND CAMPAIGN 

September 6, 1924 



[47] 



Seagirt, N. J., Aug. 22. — Speaking to 
a mass meeting of 35,000 Democrats at 
Camp Silzer here today, John W. Davis, 
Democratic nominee for President, con- 
demned the Ku Klux Klan by name and 
challenged President Coolidge to join 
him in a similar declaration and take 
this issue out of the campaign. 

N. Y. Times, August 23 

Plymouth, Vt., Aug. 23.— .... Today 
there was no indication that Mr. Cool- 
idge would rush into the dispute hastily. 
But he will, in due time, meet the issue, 
it was indicated, seeking the opportune 
time and occasion. . . . One of the Presi- 
dent's advisers said that Mr. Coolidge's 
reply, when it does come, will be brief 
and straightforward and will "satisfy 
thinking people." 

Ibid., Aug. 24 

"I first desire to speak, as Mr. Davis 
did yesterday, relative to the Ku Klux 
Klan. I agree with him that it has no 
proper part in this or any other cam- 
paign. But whether proper or not, un- 
fortunately in this campaign a mobiliza- 
tion of radicalism under La Follette, the 
largest section of which, the Socialists, 
fly the Red flag, is attacking the 
Constitution of the United States. I can- 
not agree, therefore, with his inference 
that its discussion diverts attention from 
those issues the people must settle in 
November by their votes. 

"The questions of Mr. Pattangall, 
which appear in the press this morning, 
are the familiar trick questions of the 
ordinary politician. They are not the 
cause of the statement I am about to 
make. 

"Let me say at once that I recognize 
that the Ku Klux Klan in many localities 
and among many people represents only 
an instinctive groping for leadership, 
moving in the interest of law enforce- 



ment, which they do not find in many 
cowardly politicians and office-holders. 
But it is not the right way to forward 
law enforcement. 

"Let us consider for a minute what 
happened in the State of Oklahoma. . . . 
If there could be an excuse for law-abid- 
ing citizens to band themselves together 
in secret organizations for law enforce- 
ment, it existed in Oklahoma. . . . 

"Consider what happened in William- 
son County, 111., where the town of Her- 
rin is situated. A reign of lawlessness 
existed. It was marked by the terrible 
Herrin massacre. It was marked by a 
general breakdown in respect for law, 
which indicated that the officers of the 
county, including the Sheriff, had been 
intimidated by lawbreakers into inaction. 
A thousand members of the Ku Klux 
Klan, without disguise — they were brave 
men — marched to the office of the Sheriff 
of Williamson County to protest against 
the lawlessness in that section. . . . 

"There is much in the Ku Klux Klan 
which appeals to adventurous youth . . . 
but, my friends, government cannot last 
if that is the right way to enforce law 
in this country. . . . Appeals to racial, 
religious or class prejudice by minority 
organizations are opposed to the welfare 
of all peaceful and civilized communi- 
ties. . . ." 

Ibid., same day. Gen. Dawes speak- 
ing at Augusta, Me.* 

"The White House, 
"Washington, Aug. 29, 1924. 

"My dear Mr. Branin: 

"Complying with your request of Aug. 
21, I am sending you on behalf of the 
President a message which the President 
has authorized for the Jewish New Year. 

"As to the other matters touched upon 
in your communication, I am authorized 
to say. . . . 



"Concerning the Ku Klux Klan, the 
President has repeatedly stated that he 
is not a member of the order and is not 
in sympathy with its aims and purposes. 
As to the government of the United 
States exerting its influence in other 
countries to protect the rights of the 
population. . . . 

"Most sincerely yours, 

"(Signed) C. BASCOM SLEMP, 
"Secretary to the President" 

"Mr. Joseph Branin, 
"160 Fifth Avenue, 
"New York, N. Y." 

Mr. Coolidge's first reply of any 
kind on the Klan issue, as quoted 
in the Herald Tribune, Septem- 
ber 3. 



Sioux Falls, S. D., Sept. 19.— The 
harsh facts of a serious economic situa- 
tion rather than political palliatives were 
set before the people of South Dakota 
to-night by General Charles G. Dawes 
in a speech that bristled with expres- 
sions of contempt for politicians. 

"Blatherskites" was added to the em- 
phatic definitions applied by the Repub- 
lican Vice-Presidential candidate to the 
demagogues of both parties. . . . "Pewit 
politicians" was the characterization 
employed by General Dawes on his last 
speaking trip, when he went to Milwau- 
kee. Whether he says blatherskite or 
pewit or demagogue the person he has 
chiefly in mind is Robert M. La Follette, 
but to-night General Dawes by inference 
seemed to include John W. Davis in this 
classification. . . . General Dawes' denun- 
ciation of politicians in both parties was 
so vigorous and sweeping that some of 
the politicians who shared the platform 
with him squirmed uncomfortably. . . . 
Ibid., Sept. 20 



* Space unfortunately does not permit a fuller quotation of this speech, in which General Dawes praised with faint damns. 
His remarks on Oklahoma and Illinois should be carefully read for the light they cast on the national psychology. The Gen- 
eral forgot to say anything about the situation in Indiana, which we shall be obliged to refer to on page 92. 

Colonel George Harvey, in one of his signed articles in The Washington Post, notes that after the report of Dawes' speech 
reached Plymouth, Vt., President Coolidge "conferred with Mr. Slemp at some length and then went to church, probably to 
pray." (N. Y. Times, editorial, Sept. 4.) 



[ 4 8] 







THE NORDIC'S SATURDAY NIGHT 

September 22, 1924 



[49] 



"One party — the Republican party, 
the party of progressive conservatism, 
under the leadership of President 
Coolidge, has taken its stand firmly 
upon the Constitution of the United 
States, and all know where it stands. 
Opposed to it, and in reality its chief 
opponent ... is a movement of untried 
and dangerous radicalism." 

C. G. Dawes, in his speech of ac- 
ceptance delivered at Evanston, 
111., Aug. 19 



Milwaukee, Wis., Sept. 11.— The La 
Follette independent candidacy was at- 
tacked here in its recognized stronghold 
to-night by Charles G. Dawes, Republi- 
can Vice-Presidential nominee. . . . Mr. 
Dawes said he recognized that there 
were in the country "many men who are 
justly discontented but who are patriotic 
at least." 

"They may be opposed to certain 
things in the existing order, but they 
are not opposed to the existing order of 
things," he added. "I warn them that 
they should not be deceived by the catch- 
all phrases of this master demagogue 
endeavoring to amalgamate them with 
the Socialists, flying the red flag, in an 
attack on the Constitution of their coun- 
try. . . , We have seen in this country 



tremendous power wielded by certain 
leaders who understand mob psychology. 
We have seen the great influence of cer- 
tain leaders who . . . following the Le 
Bon formula of violent affirmation and 
indulging in no appeal to their reason, 
lead masses of people to lawless action." 
The World, Sept. 12 



"Probably the greatest reason why the 
Republican Party should be re-elected is 
because its defeat means a direct menace 
to the Constitution of the United States, 
through the rise of radical strength, and 
the adoption of the wild vagaries of Mr. 
LaFollette. . . . There is a possibility 
that if the election is thrown into the 
House Charles W. Bryan will be our 
next President through his election to 
the Vice Presidency. . . . The wisest, 
safest and most certain method to as- 
sure a continuation of our Supreme 
Court and the protection of our life and 
property from fanatical control is for 
good Democrats to recognize that Mr. 
Davis cannot be elected and cast their 
votes in November for Mr. Coolidge, 
who can." 

Postmaster-General Harry S. New, 
in an interview with William R. 
Crawford of the N. Y. Times 
(Oct. 4) 



[5°] 







•••¦ ¦> "¦¦'• ,-'" 






'I WANTS TO MAKE THEIR FLESH CREEP" 

October 16, 1924 



[51] 



FEMINIZATION OF BARBER SHOPS GOES ON DESPITE MEN'S FROWNS 

For ages the barber shop was a man's institution, a place where womankind had 
no business. Along came the "lady barber," and after her the "bob" craze, and 
the sacred tonsorial precincts were man's no more. 



The barbers faced a real problem when the "bob" movement started. They didn't 
wish to lose their men customers who objected to the presence of women, and they 
didn't care to miss the "bob" harvest. Some of them solved the problem nicely by 
adding the beauty parlor and keeping their feminine customers out of the chairs 
in the main salon. 

In other shops, however, women use the same entrance and the same waiting 
chairs as men; they receive the same bootblack service, read the same funny 
papers and enter freely into barbershop discussions of politics and other matters 
of common interest. The men customers go right on smoking, regardless of the 
women. But, then, men do that almost everywhere now. 

A palatial shop near Grand Central has fifteen manicurists at work, among 
whom are several "beauty doctors." "As a matter of fact, men and women get 
about the same beauty treatments," said the boss of this shop. "But they don't 
know it." . . . One effect of the new era in barbering is reported by the head of 
another shop. He has added women's magazines to the stock of literature for wait- 
ing patrons. 

Some men still frown when they find women waiting in line ahead of them. 
These men are classified by a barber as: 

1. Men who think women's place is in the home. 

2. Elderly gentlemen who can't get used to seeing the new styles in hair and 
want women to retain their "crowning glory." 

3. Men whose wives have "done it." 

4. Men who want to talk vigorously on current events. 

5. Men who don't want to hear women talk. 

"Yes," said this barber, "the women who come in here talk more than the men and 
it grates on the nerves of the men customers, though I don't pretend to say why." 



Small feature article, N. Y. Times, Sunday, Oct. 5, 1924 



Chicago, July 25. — Bobbed hair is 
given as the cause of wage increase de- 
mands being made by the journeyman 
barbers' union, which threatens to take 
a strike vote next week if an agreement 
is not reached. 

"With bobs ranging in price from $1 
to $1.50, with the prospect of curling, 
marcelling and shampooing, with the 
barber having to go to school to learn 
how to do it, we want more money," 
W. S. Leidy, union President, says. 

The present scale is $26 weekly, with 
60 per cent of all checks over a total of 
$38. The demand is for $38 salary and 
the same percentage of all over $50.00. 
N. Y. Times, July 26, 1924 



Eighteen months ago Judge Franklin 
Taylor in the Kings County Court placed 
William Eve of 107 Ten Eyck Street, 
Brooklyn, on probation for five years on 
Eve's promise that he would quit drink- 
ing and work to support his wife and 
four children. Recently Probation Officer 
Walter Walsh learned that Eve had 
given up his position as a truckman and 
had taken to drink again. As a result he 
was arraigned yesterday before Judge 
W. Bernard Vause, charged with viola- 
tion of his parole. 

"Why were you so foolish as to drink 
again?" asked Judge Vause. 



Before Eve could reply his wife, Mil- 
dred, stepped to the bar and said: 

"Your Honor, the fault is all mine. 
Everything was all right until I had my 
hair bobbed. That upset him and he 
went out and got drunk. Please give him 
another chance, because he has been do- 
ing fine for me and our children." 

"Take my advice and don't concern 
yourself with strictly personal affairs of 
women," said Judge Vause to the de- 
fendant. "No matter how you or any 
other man may feel you are not going 
to exert any control over the ladies on 
the matter of styles." 

Judge Vause continued the probation 
and the Eves left the courtroom arm 



in arm. 



Ibid., Aug. 30 



Washington, September 5. — American 
women have almost ruined the export 
trade of Chefoo, China, by having their 
hair bobbed. Figures from Consul John 
R. Puman, received by the department 
of commerce, disclosed that shipments of 
human hair from Chefoo during the first 
half of the year dwindled to $139,881, 
as compared with $461,399 in the cor- 
responding period of 1923. Exporting of 
human hair is the chief item of Chefoo's 
foreign trade. 

Ibid., Sept. 6 



[52] 



i ; v .\ ¦:¦¥ •••••, ,"f J :-j •: ¦¦' '.. •«•¦ V .- ¦ .>.'..' '• y <.-¦¦.;¦'• :-".•.' '-.^. ¦.-•';>• .•.">,i . if •„- >•/• i» .}> 






:.-.r..i »?.j 













THE KING IS DEAD— LONG LIVE THE QUEEN! 

February 8, 1925 



[53] 



Even as Vice-Presidential candidate in 1920, Mr. Coolidge was ac- 
quiring considerable renown. We cull the following tribute to his 
prowess as a handshaker from an enthusiastic interview in the 
Tribune: 

"But his head has been raised, a smile comes quickly over his face, 
and it isn't his eyes nor his mouth alone, but his entire face, that breaks 
into a smile, and you step nearer, your hand extending to meet the big, 
strong, white hand of Calvin Coolidge, and you feel your palm com- 
pressed as if it had been grasped by a pugilist. 

"There are a great many politicians and professional handshakers 
who pride themselves in perfecting the shaking of the hand to such a 
degree that they can go through an entire day's session doing nothing 
but grasping hands and at the end of the day feel not at all fatigued. 
This is done simply by obtaining the first grasp of the other fellow's 
hand and catching it far down toward the finger tips, thus making it 
impossible for the second party to do any real squeezing. It is the twist- 
ing of one's hand by others that tires, not the actual business of heaving 
and pumping on one's own part, it is said. 

"This trick has not been learned by Calvin Coolidge, or else it has 
been learned by him and cast aside as a thing not to be proud of. You 
guess instantly that the latter is the case." 

Still, six years in the White House is a long time. 



[54] 







WHY NOT? 



April 18, 1925 



[55] 



"The Bible has nothing to fear from 
science," the Rev. J. Frank Norris, 
D.D., of Fort Worth, Texas, pastor of 
the largest church in the South, declared 
yesterday in the first of a series of Cal- 
vary Baptist Church, New York City, 
Fundamentalist Mass Meetings, here, in 
which he attacked liberal or "modern- 
ist" ministers as "wolves in sheep's 
clothing", and compared them with 
Judas. . . . 

"God could have created them by evo- 
lution but He didn't," the Texas preach- 
er said. "I would believe God made John 
Roach Stratton, here, out of a donkey, 
gorilla or an orangoutan, if God said 
He did. The question is not what He 
could do but what He did." 

The World, Dec. 3, 1923 



Nashville, Tenn., March 23.— Enact- 
ment of a law to prohibit the teaching 
of the theory of evolution in the State- 
supported schools of Tennessee was 
completed to-day with the signing of the 
measure by Governor Austin Peay. . . . 
The Anti-Evolution bill provides: "That 
it shall be unlawful for any teacher in 
any of the universities, normal and all 
other public schools of the state which 
are supported in whole or in part by 
the public school funds of the State to 
teach anything that denies the story of 
the divine creation of man as taught in 
the Bible, and to teach, instead, that 
man has descended from a lower order 
of animals." 

New York Times, Mar. 24, 1925 



Nashville, Tenn., May 6 (A.P.).— A 
Dayton, Tenn., dispatch to the Banner 
says that J. T. Scopes, science teacher 
in Rhea High School, was arrested yes- 
terday on a charge of violating the new 
Tennessee law. . . . George W. Rapple- 
yea, Dayton business man, was the com- 
plainant. . . . The test, it was under- 
stood, is to be made under the auspices 



of the American Civil Liberties Union 

of New York. 

Ibid., May 7 (an inconspicuous 
item on p. 40. This number also 
chronicled the introduction of an 
anti-evolution bill in the Florida 
legislature) 



Memphis, May 12. — William J. Bryan 
was asked in a telegram sent to-day by 
the World's Christian Fundamentals 
Association to act as counsel for the 
association in the case of J. T. Scopes 
of Dayton, Tennessee. . . . Mr. Bryan, 
telegraphing from Pittsburgh, said he 
would be pleased to represent the asso- 
ciation in the prosecution, providing his 
acceptance was agreeable to the legal 
department of the state. 

Ibid., May 13 



"It is the pay check that rules the 
schools. Who is to control them if not 
the taxpayers, those who support them? 
. . . We are expected to turn over the 
education of children to these" (godless 
scientists) "and let them decide what 
we shall teach them. . . . When a man 
tells me not to believe in the Bible till 
Science O.K.'s it, I tell him that if 
Science O.K.'d it this would not be a fit 
place to live in." 

W. J. Bryan, speaking at the 
Majestic Theatre in Brooklyn — 
"They Have Taken My Risen 
Lord Away." 

Ibid., May 19 



Should the need arise to introduce live 
exhibits in defense of the Darwinian 
theory in the Scopes trial, "Zip" known 
in circus sideshows as "Barnum's What- 
izit", stands ready to play the role of 
the "missing link". A telegram placing 
"Zip" at the disposal of Clarence Dar- 
row was sent last night by Samuel Gum- 
pertz of the Dreamland Circus Sideshows 
at Coney Island, where "Zip" is now 
appearing. 

Ibid., July 12 



[56] 




f M J, 




. J i> 



mm 






GATHERING DATA FOR THE TENNESSEE TRIAL 

May ig, 1925 



[57] 



Worcester, Mass., April 5. — Dr. Wolf- 
gang Koehler of the University of Ber- 
lin, who is lecturing this year at Clark 
University on the result of his long study 
of the language and habits of apes, will 
not lecture at North Carolina University 
as scheduled. 

Arrangements for a course of lectures 
on "The Intelligence of Anthropoid 
Apes" have been definitely terminated, 
Clark officials said, by the administra- 
tion of the North Carolina college, who 
fear such a topic fingers too closely on 
evolution to meet the approval of the 
Legislature of that state, which by a 
small margin recently defeated a bill 
to make teaching of evolution illegal 
in the schools. . . . Proposal for a similar 
series of lectures at the University of 
Tennessee was also vetoed. 

New York Times, April 6, 1925 



Topeka, Kansas, May 27. — Last week 
patrons of School District 18, Jewell 
County, of which Rev. D. Hodgell is 
Superintendent, voted 14 to 5 to order a 
set of "The Book of Knowledge" burned. 
. . . The books were said to contain a 
thorough discussion of the theory of evo- 
lution. 

Ibid., May 28 



Dayton, Tenn. — William Jennings 
Bryan would be willing, it was intimated 
to-day, to become President of the Fun- 
damentalist College proposed for Day- 
ton. 

George F. Washburn, Treasurer of 
the Washburn interests of Clearwater, 
Fla., a wealthy real estate owner and 
builder, who is summering at Manomet, 
Mass., sent a telegram to Mr. Robinson 
(President of the Dayton Board of Edu- 
cation) to-day. . . . He wired: 



"You may announce to-day that if you 
succeed in raising $1,000,000 for a Fun- 
damentalist university I will increase 
my subscription from $10,000 to $25,000, 
and will give $25,000 additional towards 
creating a $1,000,000 fund to organize 
the Fundamentalists of America in the 
defenders of the faith in every State. 
. . . If this battle of the ages encircles 
the world it may become necessary for 
Protestantism and Roman Catholicism 
to unite their forces in defense of the 
Apostles' Creed and to resist this world- 
wide invasion of Atheism. 

"While great Modernist universities, 
like Columbia, carry their bigotry so far 
as to threaten to boycott the students of 
Tennessee and other states that favor 
the Bible it is imperative that the Fun- 
damentalists rise in their might and 
send their sons and daughters to such 
universities only that recognize God and 
Christ and the Bible." 

Ibid., July 19 



Scopes was found guilty on July 21, 
and appealed to the Tennessee Supreme 
Court. Mr. Bryan then died (July 26), 
filling the front pages; but Stratton, 
Riley, Norris, et al, carried on the fight 
for anti-evolution laws, a struggle that 
continued actively through the Coolidge 
era. 

"You may find a new belief, it will only 

bring you grief, 
Foh a haouse that's built on sand is 

shuh to fall; 
And whehevah you will turn, there's a 

lesson you will learn, 
That the old religion's bettah afteh all." 

Refrain of "The John T. Scopes 
Trial", by Carlos B. McAfee, as 
sung by Vernon Dalhart (Colum- 
bia record 15037D) 



Ed. Note: The original caption of this cartoon has here been restored. It appeared 
in The World as a "A Bryanite". 



[58] 




CLASSROOM IN PROPOSED BRYAN UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE 

July 18, 1925 



[59] 



Atlanta, November 9. — The New Tam- 
many was welcomed by the Old Southern 
Democracy to-night when Mayor-elect 
Walker of New York City was greeted 
by former Senator Hoke Smith, a 
mighty power in the days of Grover 
Cleveland. 

The meeting took place at the home 
of John S. Cohen, Democratic National 
Committeeman and one of the leaders 
of the McAdoo forces which fought Gov. 
Al Smith so hard in the last Democratic 
convention. The Mayor-elect will be the 
guest of Major Cohen for several days, 
until he leaves for Florida for a three- 
weeks' vacation. 



None of the Democrats who met the 
Senator would discuss the political sig- 
nificance of his reception here. 

"The New York newspapers say 
Mayor Walker is here to sell us Tam- 
many and Gov. Smith," Major Cohen 
said. "Well, Jimmie can sell anybody 
anything." 

Special Dispatch to The World 
(George Wood) 



[6o] 




'NICE KITTY" 



November n, 7925 



[61] 



London, Dec. i. — The Locarno pact and associated arbitrations were 
signed at the Foreign Office here this morning in circumstances and to 
the tune of speeches that seemed to wipe out the spirit of Versailles 
and substitute for it what is now so strenuously emphasized — the spirit 
of Locarno. 



The seven nations whose representatives signed the Locarno treaties 
here to-day are: Great Britain, France, Germany, Belgium, Italy, 
Poland, and Czecho-Slovakia. . . . The treaties are for arbitration and 
security from aggression among Germany, France and Belgium, guar- 
anteed as to both sides by Great Britain and Italy: and for arbitration 
and frontier guarantees between Poland and Germany and Czecho- 
slovakia and Germany. These treaties are also signed by France as the 
ally of the smaller nations. 



In addition to one whole end of the room being filled with a gallery 
of 150 newspaper correspondents, representing the press of the world, 
a platform high above their heads held four movie men, who filmed 
the scene which Sir Austen Chamberlain, Foreign Minister and today's 
acclaimed hero of Locarno negotiations, intended to depict the usher- 
ing in of peace to which the Paris peace treaty was but a document of a 
preliminary armistice. 

Special Cable to The World (Arthur E. Mann) 



[62] 

INTO THE LIGHT 



December 8, 1925 



[63] 



Washington, Feb. 9. — President Coolidge does not mean to spend the summer at 
Swampscott this year. That was the most definite information accorded by "the 
White House Spokesman" at to-day's session with the newspaper correspondents. 



Turning from the snowstorm the "spokesman" naturally answered a question 
or two about the coal strike. The President, he said, knew about the Copeland 
resolution calling on him to summon the miners and operators to the White House, 
but inquired if it was passed with a roll call. . . . The President, he said, would 
give the Senate resolution such consideration as it deserved. The spokesman had 
on his poker face, which might be interpreted, in the light of what followed, as 
indicating that it did not deserve much. Of course, he explained, the action is not 
binding on the Executive. 

The spokesman did not see how it changed the situation. Everybody naturally 
would like to see the strike settled, and if the President knew how he would have 
settled it long ago, but it seemed to him that for the Government to meddle in it 
might make the situation worse. 

Special Dispatch to The World (Charles Michelson) Feb. 10, 1926 



1927 



COOLIDGE IS COOL TOWARD 
MEDIATION 
Washington, Jan. 21. — There appeared 
to be little enthusiasm for arbitration 
with Mexico at the White House. . . . 
The President's attitude . . . can only 
be deduced from the rather cryptic ut- 
terances of the Spokesman. The latter 
said the President did not think it would 
be helpful to comment at present. This 
was apropos a question as to the Ad- 
ministration's reaction to word from the 
Mexican Foreign Minister that his Gov- 
ernment accepted the idea of arbitration 
"in principle". The Spokesman set forth 
that confiscation was the only important 
question involved. . . . The President did 
not mean to criticise anybody but it is 
very difficult for him to see how any one 
in this country can see more than one 
side of the controversy. 

Special Dispatch to The World, 
(Charles Michelson) Jan. 22, 
1927 



COOLIDGE OPPOSES ARBITRA- 
TION MOVE IN MEXICAN DISPUTE 

Jan. 21. — President Coolidge made 
known to-day that he was opposed to 
arbitration of the controversy between 
the United States and Mexico. . . . 
Taken broadly, the President appears to 
see no hope in arbitration and no ques- 
tion that should be arbitrated. 

New York Times 



MR. COOLIDGE FIRM ON MEXICO 
STAND; ARBITRATION GAINS 
Jan. 21. — . . . The Senate Foreign Re- 
lations Committee reported favorably the 
Robinson resolution favoring arbitration 
between the two countries. . . . Mean- 
while, the President refused to enter 
into a discussion of the arbitration pro- 
posal. This does not mean, it is explained 
in Administration circles* that he is 
opposed to it. . . . Stripped of all con- 
tradictions the issue is simple. It is, ac- 
cording to the Presidential spokesman, 
whether Mexico is to be permitted to 
confiscate property owned by the na- 
tionals of this country. . . . The Presi- 
dent was reported as finding it difficult 
to understand how any one in this coun- 
try could see more than one side to the 
immediate dispute. 

New York Herald Tribune 



COOLIDGE ENDS MEXICO HOPE 
OF ARBITRATION 

Jan. 21. — Possibility of arbitration 
with Mexico vanished to-night. 

President Coolidge, it became known, 
is convinced that Mexico has defied her 
binding treaties with the United States 
and has violated the age-old principle 
that every man's property is safe from 
confiscation by any government. 

Both these principles are beyond 
arbitration certainly at this time, Presi- 
dent Coolidge is understood to believe. 
New York American 



* Ed. Note: Italics ours. This is a phrase that turns up (especially in the columns 
of the Herald Tribune) more than once during the Coolidge and Hoover administra- 
tions. The World was annoyed, editorially, exclaiming on Jan. 24 that really nobody 
in the United States or Mexico knew just what the President did mean. 



[o 4 ] 



P^tP^ ' k0^ '"'" ' ' ' I1P^I| 




HIS MASTER'S VOICE 



February n, igz6 



[6 5 ] 



Cleveland, Ohio, March 11. — Tabula- 
tion of the second day's vote in the 
Nationwide Prohibition referendum con- 
ducted by the N. E. A. Service, Inc., in 
co-operation with The World and 375 
other daily newspapers, showed a jump 
in the total vote of nearly 200,000, with 
the Anti-Prohibitionists rolling up a 
lead of steadily growing proportions. 
The World, Mar. 12 



The Executive Committee of the Anti- 
Saloon League issued a statement de- 
nouncing the straw votes being con- 
ducted by newspapers on the Prohibition 
question, declaring they "not only serve 
no good purpose, but actually create a 
false impression," and added: "Friends 
of Prohibition should not, and as a rule 
do not, participate in these unofficial 
polls." Ibid. 



Cleveland, March 17. — At the close of 
the eighth day of the largest unofficial 
referendum in history . . . the ballots at 
to-day's closing stood: 

For modification 684,114 

For repeal 447,322 

For Prohibition 257,973 

Of the dry states only three, Maine, 
Kansas, and South Carolina, showed a 
majority for Prohibition above the 
combined returns of those who want the 
dry laws either modified or repealed. 
Ibid., March 18 



[66] 










THE STRAW VOTE WAS PURELY URBAN 

March 19, 1926 



[67] 



Chicago, 111., April 27. — Assistant 
State's Attorney William McSwiggin, 
26-year-old "hanging prosecutor" of 
Cook County's legal forces, was killed 
tonight when gangsters poured more 
than a hundred machine gun bullets into 
the automobile in which he and four 
other men were riding at Twelfth Street 
and Fifth Avenue, Cicero. 

With him died James Doherty, who, 
with "Klondyke" O'Donnell, was noted 
as one of the most desperate of the 
Cicero beer-running leaders. A third 
man, Thomas Duffy, was seriously 
wounded. 

N. Y. Times, April 28, 1926 



The police theory is that McSwiggin 
was an innocent victim of Capone's 
wrath, which was directed against the 
other two victims, Thomas Duffy and 
James J. Doherty, for invading his boot- 
legging territory. 

A raid last night on a resort said to be 
owned by Capone revealed another ar- 
senal, consisting of a quantity of dyna- 
mite and firearms. Automatic rifle acces- 
sories, weapons and ammunition had 
been found in a previous raid at the 
home of Ralph Capone, a brother of Al. 
. . . Disclosure to the State's Attorney 
of the names of the men to whom Alex 
Korecek, a hardware dealer, sold three 
automatic rifles has set the police on a 
new trail. 

Ibid., May 3 



The six-foot Irish leader of an "out- 
law" gang, a gang existing furtively in 
another "mob's" territory, stood at a 
south-side business corner, chatting with 
a newsboy. 

"Oh, Spike," some one called from 
the street. The big fellow looked up into 
the muzzle of a rifle, thrust through the 
drawn curtains of a car. He flung the 
newsboy to the sidewalk and then 
dropped on top of him as the rat-tat-tat 
of an automatic rifle sent passersby 
running for shelter. Bullets fanned his 
coattails and left a neat horizontal de- 
sign in the wall of the drug store be- 
hind him, but he wasn't hurt. 

"Do you know who did it?" a friendly 
reporter asked him. 



"Sure I do," he replied. "I could see 
Dash and Blank through the curtains. 
Those double-starred, asterisked hyphens 
have tried to bump me off twice this 
week." 

But when the police questioned him 
he said: "Beat it! I ain't talking." 

Ibid., from a special article by 
George P. Stone, Sunday, May 9 



Shooting literally "at the drop of the 
hat," eight robbers with machine guns 
and automatic pistols held up a United 
States mail truck near the center of 
Elizabeth, N. J., at 9:10 yesterday morn- 
ing. Under cover of a spray of dum dum 
bullets that killed the truck driver and 
wounded his helper, a motorcycle police- 
man escort and a bystander, the robbers 
escaped with a registered mail estimated 
at as high as $300,000 and said to be 
more than $150,000. . . . The crime was 
marked by the organization, the equip- 
ment and the ruthlessness of a "cutting- 
out" raid on the Western front. 

The World, Oct. 15, 1926 



Marion, 111., Nov. 7. — Guns are blazing 
in "Bloody" Williamson County again, 
and the war between rival bootlegging 
gangs, each bent on controlling the illicit 
liquor traffic through political dominance, 
has broken out afresh after a temporary 
lull. 

The latest victims are Mayor Jeff 
Stone, aged 51, of the village of Colp, 
situated three miles west of Herrin, and 
John Milroy, aged 21, also of Colp. They 
were shot down in the streets of the vil- 
lage last night. Police Chief Keith was 
slightly wounded. 

They were slain by volleys fired at 
close range from rifles and machine guns 
in the hands of gangsters, who occupied 
four automobiles. Mayor Stone's body 
was fairly riddled with bullets, for 
which he was intended to be the sole 
target. There was no pursuit of the 
assassins as they drove away, leaving 
the mayor's body in the road. 



hostilities. As one of the leaders of the 
rival gangs has said openly: 

"After we together licked the Klan we 
split on the control of the liquor, and 
it won't end until one side or the other 
is killed off." 

N. Y. Times, Nov. 8, 1926 



Camden, N. J., Dec. 30. — In an auto- 
mobile chase of seven miles along the 
Black Horse Pike, three men in a yellow 
roadster dealt death from machine guns 
early this morning. They killed two men 
and wounded three men and two women, 
one of the women seriously, before the 
fusillade, which aroused the countryside, 
had ended. 

All of the victims were from Philadel- 
phia and one of the dead men and all of 
the wounded men were said to have 
criminal records by the police, who at- 
tributed the shooting to a gang feud. 

Ibid., Dec. 31, 1928 



Control of the bootleg liquor supply 
is at the bottom of the Birger-Shelton 



Chicago, Feb. 14. — Chicago gangland 
leaders observed Valentine's Day with 
machine guns and a stream of bullets 
and as a result seven members of the 
George (Bugs) Moran-Dean O'Banion 
North Side gang are dead in the most 
cold-blooded gang massacre in the his- 
tory of the city's underworld. 

The seven gang warriors were trapped 
in a beer-distributors' rendezvous at 
2,122 North Clark Street, lined up 
against the wall by four men, two of 
whom were in police uniforms, and ex- 
ecuted with the precision of a firing 
squad. 

The dead, the greatest in point of 
numbers since the Chicago gang killings 
began in 1924 with the assassination of 
Dean O'Banion, were the remnants of 
the "mob" organized by O'Banion, later 
captained by Hymie Weiss and Peter 
Gusenberg and recently commanded by 
George (Bugs) Moran. 

One name loomed in the police inves- 
tigation under way this afternoon and 
tonight. It was that of Alphonse (Scar- 
face) Capone, gang leader extraor- 
dinary. 

Ibid., Feb. 15, 1929 



[68] 



/ 










11)1 Mr" 



AT'S THE BABY" 



October iy, ig26 



[6 9 ] 



The new requirement is optional until 
April 1. The manufacturer of industrial 
alcohol may continue until then with the 
old formula No. 5, if the percentage of 
such alcohol is doubled. . . . After April 
1 the formula will contain in addition 
a compound known as "alcohol Grade 
A", or oxidized kerosene, the taste and 
odor of which are said to be more offen- 
sive than those from the pyridine bases 
used in the old formula No. 5. 



"The government," said Mr. Wayne B. 
Wheeler (General Counsel of the Amer- 
ican Saloon League) , "is under no ob- 
ligation to furnish the people with alco- 
hol that is drinkable when the Constitu- 
tion prohibits it. The person who drinks 
this industrial alcohol is a deliberate 
suicide. . . . The very fact that men will 
gamble with their lives to get a drink 
shows how deeply this habit was fixed 
on the people under the old license sys- 
tem. To rout out a bad habit like that 
costs many lives and long years of 
effort." 

New York Times, Dec. 30, 1926 



The story of the government speak- 
easy came out, as The World put it edi- 
torially, "by accident, and it has been 
most embarrassing." In December, 1926, 
Mrs. Claudia E. Stone sued to break the 
21-year lease of a studio at 14 E. 44th 
St. to Mrs. Gussie Berman and her son, 
Dr. Isidor Berman, who sublet the studio 
to Ralph W. Bickie, federal agent. In the 
course of hearings, in particular on 
Dec. 20 and Jan. 27, the story of the 
Bridge-Whist Club came out in testi- 
mony by Bickie and A. Bruce Bilaski, 
head of the undercover operators. It ap- 
pears they ran the place as a speakeasy, 
had wholesale bootleggers raided while 
making deliveries. Finally they sold the 
place, collected for it, and raided it the 
next day. "Mr. Bilaski testified unhesi- 
tatingly that Bickie acted under his 
direction and approval in leasing the 
place for this purpose, and that the 
whole transaction, and that the entire 
transaction, as well as the purchase" 
(sic) "of bootleg liquor, was with the 
full knowledge and consent of the U. S. 
Government and the Secretary of the 
Treasury." (World, Jan. 27.) Inciden- 
tally, a financial loss was officially re- 
ported. 



[70] 




"HERE'S HOW!" 



January 4, ig2y 



[71] 



Disclaiming any direct information, 
but with an air of conviction, Dr. 
Nicholas Murray Butler declared last 
night (in a speech delivered at the regu- 
lar meeting of the Riverside Republican 
Club) it is his firm belief President 
Coolidge will not again be a candidate. 

In frank terms the President of 
Columbia University discussed the third 
term issue, asserting it would be fatal 
to have it raised again, and declaring 
that common sense dictates that the 
President declare his unwillingness to 
allow his name to go before the 1928 
convention. 

The World, Feb. 8, 1927 



"I have been saying for some time," 
said Senator Moses (R., N. H.), one of 
the few to comment publicly, "that 
President Coolidge will not run again. 
I base my opinions upon the reasons 
given by Dr. Butler and upon other fun- 
damental reasons which Dr. Butler 
failed to mention. Of course, I do not 
assume to speak for the President in 
this matter, and of course I am not voic- 
ing the sentiment of my state, because 
of course we are for Mr. Coolidge." 

Ibid., Feb. 9 



If Lincoln had finished a second in- 
stead of a first term with the Civil 
War raging, there would have been good 
argument for another term. But to-day, 
instead of a crisis, we have tranquillity 
and Mr. Coolidge. 

Editorial Comment, The World, 
Feb. 10 



United States Senator Frank B. Wil- 
lis of Ohio, another speaker (at the 41st 
annual Lincoln dinner of the National 
Republican Club in the Waldorf- 
Astoria), scored the suggestion recently 
made by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler 
that President Coolidge should not be 
considered eligible for another nomina- 
tion. Although he did not refer to Dr. 
Butler by name, Senator Willis said 
such suggestions proceed ordinarily 
either from Democrats or from "Repub- 
licans who themselves desire to be can- 
didates." 

World, Feb. 18 



[72] 




THIRD TERM? 



February 10, 192J 



[73] 



Chicago, April 2. — The National 
Guard may be called upon to insure that 
voters in the mayoralty election Tues- 
day can cast their ballots unmolested. 
Adjutant-General Black was told by 
Gov. Len Small at Springfield to-day to 
go to Chicago and judge whether that 
extremity is justified. Sheriff Charles E. 
Graydon is fearful of serious dis- 
order. . . . 

William Hale Thompson, Republican, 
is responsible for most of the fireworks. 
. . . He has more than an even chance 
to win if the Tribune's straw vote means 
anything. . . . The answer is one word, 
"Prohibition". The oleaginous Bill 
stands on a dripping platform. When he 
retired as Mayor he left 7,000 saloons 
operating. Mayor Dever closed more 
than 3,000. Democratic ward leaders 
pleaded with the Mayor (in vain) to 
use the police to catch robbers and not 
to bear down on Democratic saloon- 
keepers. 

Special Dispatch to The World 
(April 3, 1927) 



Chief of Police Collins, who is for 
Mayor Dever, has taken unusual pre- 
cautions to stop violence and balk gun- 
men who have in the past intimidated 
election officials and voters. There will 
be 105 automobile squads, twenty-five 
armed with machine guns, which will 
patrol the districts in which trouble may 
come. 



The squads were out on the Lake 
front, practicing with their machine 
guns this morning. The 2d, 3d and 4th 
wards * will vote under a masked array 
of police guns. 

Ibid., April 4 



Chicago, April 5. — William Hale 
Thompson, Republican candidate for 
Mayor, was elected to his third term to- 
day. . . . The final figures show Thomp- 
son leading ... by 83,072. . . . Despite 
the political bitterness, police said the 
election was the most orderly in seven- 
teen years, largely due to the fact that 
4,000 policemen guarded the polls and 
cars with machine guns cruised from 
precinct to precinct on the watch for 
trouble. There were a number of arrests 
for minor disorders, two Democratic 
clubs were bombed and a polling place 
and an ex-service men's club shot up, 
but no one was hurt. 



A wet platform and an "open town" 
were largely responsible for Thompson's 
victory. The split of the Cook County 
Democracy . . . had its effect in the re- 
turns. 

The almost solid Negro vote for 
Thompson helped swell his totals. Reli- 
gious and race issues were dragged in 
by Thompson and made the most of. 
Ibid., April 6 



* The bulk of the black population of Chicago was contained in these three wards: 
a territory bounded by 22nd Street, 47th Street, the Lake, and the River. 



[74] 




CHICAGO HOLDS AN ELECTION 



April 4, 192J 



[75] 



Le Bourget, France, May 21 : A flash in the still night — a swift curve like a 
night bird, then around from behind a hangar the same as any little airplane 
bus, Capt. Charles A. Lindbergh dropped upon the none too well lighted Le 
Bourget field at 10:21 to-night (5:21 New York time). He made as perfect a 
landing as if he had gone up ten minutes before on a known field. . . . The 
first of the breathless mob racing across the field reached him as he shoved 
his head across out of the cockpit ... he widely grinned his inextinguishable 
grin. . . . "Well, here we are. . . . Who, me? Oh, I'm all right." 

Special Cable to The World (By Arno Dosch-Fleurot) 

J4> 




Never did man look less like the pop- 
ular idea of a Colonel, less like a figure 
fresh from being decorated by the 
Kings of Great Britain and Belgium and 
by the Republic of France. And never 
did man, unused to cheering crowds and 
ponderous speeches of praise, ever 
handle himself more simply. 



He had swung in great circles over 
the fleet, as it lay at Quarantine, wait- 
ing for him to alight in the seaplane 
which had brought him from Mitchell 
Field. . . . Now, riding like a new form 
of peace-time admiral at the head of his 
strange fleet, he saw Manhattan, saw 
the paper already like a steady snow- 
storm, drifting lazily in the air to the 
height of building tops. 

Eight thousand police came along a 
single line of march, and even that num- 
ber proved inadequate at times. . . . 
Yet there was little confusion. . . . 

None of that Lindbergh saw. He stood 
in an open automobile, making his char- 
acteristic half salute of response to the 
unending roar of human voices which 



followed him as if through a cave of the 
winds. . . . And Lindbergh's mother, a 
gracious, almost bashful woman, riding 
close behind her son. . . . 

The World, June 14 (Oliver H. P. 
Garrett) 

Col. Lindbergh's schedule in New 
York, June 13: 

11 A. M.— At Mitchell Field changes 
to army amphibian plane. 

11:30 — Alights in New York Harbor 
and is taken aboard steamer Macom to 
review marine parade. 

1 P. M. — Lands at Pier A to be es- 
corted by column of troops to City Hall. 

1:30 P. M.— Welcomed at City Hall by 
Mayor Walker and received the City's 
medal. 

2:00 — Proceeds with escort through 
Lafayette Street, Ninth Street and 
Fifth Avenue to Eternal Light in Madi- 
son Square. 

3:00 — Places wreath at Eternal Light 
in memory of War dead. 

3:15 — Passed through halted, open 
column of troops up Fifth Avenue to 
Central Park. 

3:45 — Welcomed and decorated with 
the State Medal of Valor by Gov. Smith 
in Central Park. Reviews troops. 



[7^] 


















ugf i — * "V"? /^- j -'';5 h *!»» S (_ 






Si 





I)^||» 




*< 









I V r. vs. 






•my n 




mm m 



T/' 




¦ m 



\ &i 



'/ 



X 



i 



<4 



\i 






¦ 



m 



r^^i y 



*bL 










^ / 



P*»9fflfc, 








SOCIAL NOTE: MRS. C. A. LINDBERGH AND SON CHARLES ARE 
VISITING FRIENDS IN NEW YORK 

June 14, i<)2j 



[77] 



Detroit, Michigan, May 25. — An- 
nouncement of a new Ford car was 
made by officials of the Ford Motor 
Company to-day in a statement assert- 
ing that it would be "superior in design 
and performance to any low-priced, 
light car." 

Times, May 26, 1927 



There will be an effort, it is said, to 
begin quantity production by October 1, 
but Barron doubts that any such pro- 
duction as was possible with the old 
model T will be possible before Novem- 
ber. 

Ford's factories, meanwhile, look like 
huge trade schools with foremen and 
workers being instructed in the manu- 
facture and adjustment of the new 
parts. Barron reiterates the impression, 
current hitherto, that the Model A will 
be a three-speed forward gear-shift type 
and will have four-wheel brakes. 

Ibid., Aug. 30 



During the last ten days some 4,000 
employees have been added to the Ford 
plants, bringing the total to more than 
62,800. 

Ibid., Sept. 25 



Henry Ford's dazzling baby, reared at a 
cost of one hundred million or more, 
opened on Broadway to standing room 
only. It was as remarkable a perform- 
ance as this city ever has seen. To-day 
the show moves to Madison Square Gar- 
den. The Yankee Stadium would be 
better. 



At least 200,000, perhaps more, ex- 
amined her appraisingly between 10 
A. M. and last midnight. There were 
only twenty-two models in fourteen dis- 



play rooms throughout the greater city. 
Each drew spectators thick as flies 
around molasses. 



Gone was the stale Ford joke, gone the 
flapping fenders. Here was something 
worthy of dignity and self-respect, a 
solid, self-prospecting thing not at all 
ridiculous in beauty of line and color. 
The doors closed with a thud, not a tinny 
rattle. 

"How can Ford make this for $385?" 
marvelled a roadster's admirer. 

The World, Dec. 3, 1927 



"It is a remarkable piece of machin- 
ery, but it isn't a Ford, because the Ford 
was an educational institution as well 
as a machine. The old Ford, the old, 
black, rusty, cantankerous, obstinate, 
sputtering Ford, brought wisdom to 
many fools and made many wise men go 
raving, tearing mad. This new lily of 
the valley isn't going to teach us any- 
thing. It looks as if it would run indefi- 
nitely without complaint, which is all 
wrong. It is made for security and com- 
fort, which is also all wrong. Where is 
the gas tank? Out in front where it can 
be reached. Where is the timer? Out in 
front where it can no longer bark your 
knuckles. Where are the brake-bands? 
In a ridiculously exposed position where 
their value as trainers of character and 
refined language is completely lost. 

"We are degenerating. We are enter- 
ing a period of Roman luxury. The new 
Ford is a garage car. Back to the 
pioneer days when we threw sand under 
the fan belt and tightened the horn with 
a dime." 

From the editorial "It's a Girl", 
N. Y. Evening Post, Dec. 3. 
(Written by Robert Littell) 



[78] 







HATCHING 



September y, 192J 



[79] 



Paris, Sept. 13. — The Washington Government may find on its hands 
a really difficult problem in straightening out the tariff tangle in 
France. 

The Foreign Office to-night sent word to the Embassy that a reply 
to its protests against the new rates would be delivered to-morrow. 

France wants something in return for granting us most-favored- 
nation treatment. However, it is entirely likely that temporary relief 
from the weight of the new tariff rates on American imports will be 
accorded pending treaty negotiations. This relief may take the form of 
imposing minimum rates as fixed in connection with the new Franco- 
German trade treaty instead of the maximum rates which apply as 
from Sept. 6 in a number of cases. 

However much it may represent a departure from former practice, 
the French seem to think there is no reason why America should 
charge up to 100 per cent on imports from France and expect to pay 
only a small percentage of that rate on exports to France. 

Special to The New Yor\ Times, Sept. 14. By Edwin L. James 



[80] 




"BUT, MONSIEUR, WHERE DOES IT BEND?" 

October 4, 192J 



[8l] 



Chicago, May 25. — Mayor Thompson 
to-day won control of the School Board 
with the election of J. Lewis Coath as 
President and John A. English as Vice 
President. 

New York Times, May 26 



Chicago, Oct. 13. — William McAndrew 
to-day was charged with being a tool of 
the English-Speaking Union by John J. 
Gorman, lawyer and former Representa- 
tive, at the trial of the suspended Super- 
intendent of Schools before the Board of 
Education. Mr. Gorman was appointed 
by Mayor Thompson to investigate the 
history textbooks now in use. . . . 

To-day he read from the report . . . 
concentrating on those written by David 
S. Muzzey, "American History" and 
"The American People" issued in 1925 
and 1927, respectively. . . . "Most of 
the books not only omitted but also dis- 
torted and minimized the facts hitherto 
held important in American histories," 
Mr. Gorman said. 

"In each of these was a clearly denned 
tendency to endeavor to unite Great 
Britain and the United States. They 
showed definitely seeds of the Rhodes 
scholarship, the Carnegie Foundation and 
the English-Speaking Union." 

Ibid., October 14 

Frederick Bausman, former Supreme 
Court justice of the State of Washing- 
ton, will take the stand at the trial on 
Wednesday. . . . Mr. Bausman is the 
author of an article in The American 
Mercury for October. The article is en- 
titled "Under Which Flag," and in it the 
writer declares that millions are spent 
to spread the doctrines of Britain in the 
United States. 

Ibid., October 17 

One prospective star witness (H. L. 
Mencken) . . . declined to testify to- 
day, while preparations were under way 
for the fourth hearing. . . . 

"That is certainly a good show Mayor 
Thompson is running over there in 
Chicago," was the way Mr. Mencken re- 
ferred to the McAndrew trial. "I would 
like very much to go over and see it, but 
cannot possibly spare the time now. 

"Mayor Thompson said: 'My advisers' 
idea was to run McAndrew out on small 
stuff, such as spitting on the ceiling.' 
But I said 'No, the issue was "America 
First." Let him go to trial on that.' " 
Mr. Mencken quoted. 



"Now if they have actually caught 
McAndrew spitting on the ceiling, as the 
Mayor intimates, there is no pro-British 
in his make-up. Spitting is peculiarly an 
American habit. Americans always spit 
on the ceiling when they can, or on the 
walls when they cannot reach the ceil- 
ing." 

Ibid., October 19 

"England beguiled us into war, took 
all the spoils of it and did not want to 
pay her debts." 

"During your travels, did you have 
occasion to observe whether England 
spread propaganda in this country?" 
asked counsel. 

"I did," Mr. Bausman replied. "I 
thought there was a great deal of it in 
the schools." 

"Where else did you notice evidences of 
pro-British propaganda?" 

"In the public libraries. In literature, 
generally. There was a scandalous 
pamphlet written by a Massachusetts 
man named Peabody. It was a scandalous 
document holding we did nothing in the 
World War and that England should pay 
us no debts, that she owed us none. . . ." 

"What did you find in the libraries 
with regard to British influence?" the 
lawyer asked. 

The witness held up a small pam- 
phlet. 

"The American Library Association 
issues current pamphlets under the title 
'Reading with a purpose'," he said. "This 
particular pamphlet has the sub-title 
'The Europe of Our Day,' and is written 
by Herbert Adams Gibbons of Prince- 
ton, N. J. 

"I saw recommended in the book 'Eng- 
land' by Dean Inge of St. Paul's. It is 
the most contemptuous book on our coun- 
try I have ever read. Dean Inge terms 
us Shylocks, eager to grab Canada from 
the British Empire. Another approved 
book is by a Dr. Davis, a most biased 
crank, who assailed America's motives 
in the war. Another book recommended 
in the library pamphlet was written by 
Carlton J. Hayes of Columbia Univer- 
sity, whose history has recently been 
condemned by the Veterans of Foreign 
Wars." 

"There is an association in this coun- 
try called the English-Speaking Union. 
(Superintendent McAndrew is a mem- 
ber) . . . England maintains in New 
York an English bureau of information 
which sends out an amazing amount of 



literature, all of it political. I get gobs 
of it in my mail." 

Ibid., October 20 

Testimony of the Hon. Frederick 
Bausman 

TELEGRAM 
Chicago, 111., October 27, 1927 
Mayor Alfred N. Phillips 

Stamford, Connecticut 
Will you join in the establishment of the 
America First foundation, a national 
organization for better citizenship, based 
on loyalty and patriotism, with a nation- 
wide educational program to teach the 
constitution of the United States and 
respect for our form of government and 
a thorough knowledge of its fundamen- 
tal laws and to build the coming genera- 
tion, native and foreign born, into sturdy 
defenders of American ideals. Member- 
ship fee of ten dollars. 

William Hale Thompson 

REPLY No. 1— TELEGRAM 

October 28, 1927 
Hon. William Hale Thompson 

Mayor of Chicago, 111. 
Telegram received stop Did you say 
membership fee or membership free 
Alfred N. Phillips, Jr., 
Mayor of Stamford, Conn. 

REPLY No. 2— TELEGRAM 

Mayor William Thompson 

Chicago, 111. 

Replying to your ten dollar fee or is it 
free wire Stop Have you yet burned that 
tricky British book Alice in Wonder- 
land? You ought to be warned that those 
tricky Britishers may have some pretty 
mean propaganda against you in it Stop 
It is surprising how tricky they are in 
even writing this up before you were 
born Stop Maybe the old King himself 
did it Stop Maybe they meant the people 
of Chicago in calling it Alice in Wonder- 
land Stop Here is what those tricky 
Britishers said in that book perhaps 
meaning you Stop You are old Father 
William, the young man said, and your 
hair has become very white, And yet you 
incessantly stand on your head, Do you 
think at your age it is right? In my 
youth, Father William replied to his son, 
I feared it might injure the brain; But 
now that I'm perfectly sure I have none, 
why I do it again and again. 

Alfred N. Phillips, Jr. 
Mayor of Stamford, Conn. 



[82] 



¦ .: . ..-'¦' i 






If ¦¦*:,<, 



1 : »3 




S3 fc5S.- a 




- - 




m, m 



-.- I it* 






»fn ' 



"IF I CATCH YOU INSIDE THE CITY LIMITS I'LL RUN YOU IN' 

October 22, 1927 



[83] 





OFFICIAL WEATHER FORECAST 

Fair to-day and probably to-morrow ; 
slowly rising temperature; moderate 
northwest winds, becoming variable. 

TEMPERATURE TESTERDAY 
Highest, 28, 1 F. M.; lowest, 15, 6 A. M. 



Y, JANUARY 4, 1928. 



IN TWO SECTIONS 
SECTION ONE 



• » • • fIX7/"l /"•fXTTC to Greater | THREE CENTS | FOtTB I EST*) 
XYVVJ KjUjLV X a New York Within 200 MUes El M wb*-s 



A| 



IT OF THE RAIN 

' the Police and 

Army Fail to 

f Crowds 

•OM 

VOMEN 

¦^ugh 
1 



1,000 More Marines 
Ordered toNicaragua; 
U.S. Urges World Peace 



Kellogg's Proposal to France 

for an All-Nation Treaty 

"Renouncing War" Is 

Made Public 



URGES BRIAND TO JOIN 
IN "IMPRESSIVE EXAMPLE" 



French See Difficulties, Due to 

Obligations Under Geneva 

Covenant 



RESUMING Command in Nica- 
ragua With Many More Marines 




Reinforcements to Be Sent So 

Election Can Be Held. 

State Department 

Announces 



COL. GULICK, IN CHARGE, 
DIDN'T ASK FOR THEM 



Planes and All Other Equipment 
\«h— protests 



[s 4 ] 



<*»«SS8*SSteS!8S? i ?*S' 




"DO I HEAR FIRING?" 



January 16, 1928 



[85] 



"Our country has deliberately undertaken a great social and economic 
experiment, noble in motive and far-reaching in purpose. It must be 
worked out constructively." 

Herbert Hoover, in his reply to Senator Borah's Question- 
naire to Candidates. Mr. Hoover had announced his candi- 
dacy on February 12, about eight years too late for any en- 
thusiastic editorial backing from The World. 



[86] 







"BUCK UP, YOU'RE A NOBLE FELLOW" 

February 23, 1928 



[87] 



I 

Rapid City, South Dakota, Aug. 2. — To-day, the fourth anniversary of his 
succession to the Presidency, President Coolidge announced he would not seek 
another term. 

In keeping with the customary paucity of statement, the President made the 
announcement without preface or comment and promptly hurried off to the 
seclusion of the Summer White House. Meanwhile, members of his staff were 
cautioned not to discuss it with anyone. The President's exact words were : 

"I do not choose to run for President in Nineteen Twenty-Eight." 

These words he had had typewritten on small strips, which he handed to the 
correspondents one by one. 

The Northwest to-day is quite thickly populated with Coolidge bandwagon 
climbers who are feeling just a bit foolish. 

The World, Aug. 3, 1927. Staff Correspondent William J. Crawford. 

II 

"This is naturally the time to be planning for the future. The party will soon 
place in nomination its candidate to succeed me. 

"To give time for mature deliberation I stated to the country on August 2 that 
I did not choose to run for President in 1928. My statement stands. No one should 
be led to suppose I have modified it. My decision will be respected. 

"After I had been eliminated the party began, and should vigorously continue, 
the serious task of selecting another candidate from among the numbers of 
distinguished men available." 

Full statement made on Dec. 6, as reported in The World 

III 

Once again President Coolidge has reiterated his desire not to be a candidate 
for re-election. 

He declined to-day to accede to a request of the Wyoming Republican State 
Control Committee that he "waive his personal preference and consent to con- 
tinue for an additional four years that leadership which has brought honor and 
prosperity to this country." 

He made known his declarations in a letter from his Secretary, Everett San- 
ders, to L. C. Hinkle, Chairman of the Committee. . . . "While he, of course, 
very greatly appreciates and thanks you for the expression of confidence, the 
President directs me to say that he must decline to grant the request of the 
committee." 

Since then (his December statement) there has been nothing from the Presi- 
dent, despite persistent talk in some quarters of "drafting" him as a candidate. 

The World, March 22, 1928 



[88] 




"—THRICE PRESENTED HIM A KINGLY CROWN, WHICH HE 
DID THRICE REFUSE"— Julius Caesar 

March 24, 1928 



[89] 



Washington, Mar. 2. — In one of his re- 
curring attacks on the Catholic Church 
the Alabaman declared it would be "ex- 
ceedingly dangerous to make Smith, a 
Catholic, President with the Mexican 
situation as it is" . . . Sir Esme How- 
ard, the British Ambassador, also came 
under the fire of the Alabama Senator, 
who accused Sir Esme of conniving with 
the Knights of Columbus and the clergy 
of the Catholic Church to force the 
United States into war with Mexico. . . . 
He described Sir Esme as an "agent of 
the Roman Pope." 

N. Y. Times, Mar. 3, 1927 



Approximately 10,000 persons heard 
Thomas J. Heflin, United States Senator 
from Alabama, belabor Governor Alfred 
E. Smith of New York and the Knights 
of Columbus, whom he accused of work- 
ing against their own country, in order 
to bring on war with Mexico . . . He ac- 
cused the big dailies of America of being 
pro-Catholic, naming especially The New 
York Times, The New York World, and 
The Chicago Tribune. 

The audience repeatedly yelled its ap- 
proval of the sentiments expressed, espe- 
cially when the Senator touched the flag 
and demanded of all present that they 
be 100 per cent Americans. The meeting 
was held under the auspices of the Illi- 
nois Civic League. 

Ibid., June 21, 1927 



Washington, Jan. 18. — Senator Heflin's 
anti-Catholic crusade, striking mainly at 
Governor Smith of New York, hit a new 
peak in the Senate to-day. 

Heflin, in familiar black frock coat, 
white vest and dangling eye-glasses, 
roared defiance of the "Roman Hierar- 
chy" in a speech repeating much that he 
said last session, but elaborated into the 
charges that the Catholics were at the 
bottom of the Hearst forgeries. It was a 
plot to silence him, he said . . . "the cow- 
ardly, sneaking, infamous plans to asso- 
ciate me with the despicable Hearst Mex- 
ican Scandal . . . the direct result of a 
conspiracy on the part of certain Roman 
Catholics, to frame, injure and if pos- 
sible to destroy me for my work in the 
Senate " 

Then Heflin turned his guns on Gov- 
ernor Smith. "The Roman Catholic edict 
has gone forth to make Al Smith Presi- 
dent," he shouted, waving his arms until 
his detachable cuffs protruded far below 
his coat sleeves. "God deliver this coun- 
try from the rule of Al Smith and Tam- 
many. Al Smith is its head. It was de- 



nounced by Cleveland. Now it comes 
forth with Al Smith, wringing wet. I 
warn my party against nominating him. 
The Republicans can defeat him with 
anybody. . . . Every public man in this 
Senate who supports him will never come 
back to this Capitol." 

The World, Jan. 19 
(Elliott L. Thurston) 



Washington, Jan. 19. — By a vote of 
thirty-five to one the Democrats of the 
Senate to-day voted confidence in the 
leadership of Senator Joseph T. Robin- 
son of Arkansas, who yesterday rebuked 
Senator Heflin of Alabama for the lat- 
ter's attacks on the Catholic Church and 
Governor Smith of New York. 

N. Y. Times, Jan. 20, 1928 



Philadelphia, Feb. 11 (AP).— United 
States Senator Thomas J. Heflin of Ala- 
bama attacked what he termed the Cath- 
olic influence in America in an address 
before Klansmen in the Metropolitan 
Opera House to-night. A squad of four- 
teen marines and sailors surrounded him 
on the platform as a guard — Senator 
Heflin was wildly cheered when he ap- 
peared on the stage. 

"You have come," Senator Heflin said, 
"despite the warning that bombs would 
be thrown at me if I appeared on the 
stage here." 



A feature of the program was a dem- 
onstration by a hooded Klansman in 
full regalia who entered the stage while 
the auditorium was dark, except for a 
spotlight that followed the robed figure. 
He stood by the cross and recited a trib- 
ute to the Klan. 

Ibid., Feb. 12 



Chicago, March 24 (AP). — Governor 
Alfred E. Smith will never be President 
of the United States "if right thinking 
Americans can help it," said Senator 
Heflin of Alabama to-night before an au- 
dience at Lecture Hall in the Coliseum. . . . 
Ibid., Mar. 25 



Washington, April 13. — Charging that 
the campaign fund of Governor Alfred 
E. Smith in the contest for the Demo- 
cratic Presidential nomination was the 
"largest and most corrupt ever used in 
a Presidential race," Senator Heflin of 
Alabama, in a Senate speech to-day, de- 
manded that Senator Borah of Idaho 
reintroduce his resolution for an inves- 
tigation of Presidential campaign funds. 
Ibid., April 14 



[90] 




*«wMMnMHM| 



EMPLOYEES 
ENTRANCE 



¦aw 



ffS Mm mm f g g SSES S SS!' 



toiler. 



'YOU DONE GOOD, SENATOR" 



/««£ 2, /925 



[91] 



The briefest introductions will serve for most members of this choir of archangels. 

tried for murder in October 1925, con- 
victed, and imprisoned for life. 



MILLER, THOMAS WOODNUTT, Alien 
Property Custodian 1921-25. 



In March 1925 he resigned his post, 
and was succeeded by F. C. Hicks. In 
October of that year he was indicted for 
conspiracy to defraud the government in 
the American Metal Company case. The 
first trial fell through, but in March 

1927 he was convicted, fined $5000, and 
sentenced to eighteen months in Atlanta. 

DENBY, EDWIN, Secretary of the 
Navy, 1921-24. 
Under him the navy oil reserves were 
transferred to the jurisdiction of the De- 
partment of the Interior, a step which 
President Coolidge finally reversed in 
August 1927. Unfortunate acquiescence 
is the most Mr. Denby has been blamed 
for. 

KNAPP, Mrs. FLORENCE E. S., 

elected Secretary of State in the 
New York elections of 1924. 
Mrs. Knapp was convicted in May 

1928 of Grand Larceny in the first de- 
gree, in having caused to be issued and 
having diverted to her own use an un- 
earned census pay check for $2,875.06. 
She served a brief sentence in the Al- 
bany County jail. 

NEWBERRY, TRUMAN HANDY, like 
Denby, a Detroit man. 

An early precursor of Smith and Vare, 
by his victory over Henry Ford in the 
senatorial election of 1918, he precipi- 
tated one of the greatest political scan- 
dals of the century. Henry Ford charged 
corruption, involving the expenditure of 
what in those days were considered 
rather excessive sums of money. Both 
the primaries and regular elections were 
investigated. The final recount in 1921 
gave him the election with a plurality of 
4,334 over Ford; but meanwhile he had 
been convicted (March 1920) under the 
Federal Corrupt Practices Act, and sen- 
tenced to two years in prison. 

Newberry staunchly refused to resign, 
though he stayed off the floor of the Sen- 
ate until his lawyer, Secretary Hughes, 
succeeded in reversing his conviction in 
the United States Supreme Court. This 
decision (May 2, 1921) was unanimous, 
though the court split 5-4 as to the tech- 
nical reasons for reversal, some holding 
that Congress did not have the power to 
regulate the primaries, hence the Act 
under which he was convicted was uncon- 
stitutional, and others holding that Con- 
gress did have the power to regulate 
Senatorial primaries, but that there was 
an error in the submission of the case to 
the jury that warranted a new trial. Mr. 



Newberry now resumed his seat, and the 
following January the Senate confirmed 
him in it by a vote of 46-41. After the 
presidential elections, however, he re- 
signed and retired to an honorable po- 
sition in the automobile world. Governor 
Groesbeck appointed James G. Couzens, 
Mayor of Detroit, to fill his unexpired 
term. 

HAYS, WILLIAM HARRISON, Film 
Czar. 

Mr. Hays got his start in Indiana, 
where he was so successful as Republican 
State Chairman in 1916 that he became 
National Chairman in 1920. He managed 
the Harding campaign ("But, boys, get 
the money!"), and was rewarded with 
the Postmaster-Generalship. He resigned 
in January 1922, and accepted the Presi- 
dency of the Motion Picture Producers 
and Distributors of America. His con- 
nection with the Ohio Gang has never 
been fully investigated. He testified in 
1924 that he knew nothing of the trans- 
fer in 1921 of the oil reserves; and he 
forgot to mention the bonds Mr. Sinclair 
had given or lent him towards the pay- 
ment of the 1920 deficit, for he said he 
had only $75,000 from Mr. Sinclair, a 
statement which four years later he 
amended to a total of $260,000, of which 
$100,000 was paid back. 

THOMPSON, WILLIAM HALE, Mayor 
of Chicago. 
This worthy gentleman has already 
been given a good deal of space on pages 
74 and 82. 

SMITH, Col. FRANK L., Senator-Elect 
from Illinois. 

The primary scandal began with Sena- 
tor Caraway's charges in June 1926. 
Smith admitted even before election that 
he had received a campaign gift of $125,- 
000 from Samuel Insull, Illinois power 
magnate. The Senate referred his cre- 
dentials to the Reed Committee, whose 
charges he refused to answer till he 
should be seated. The Senate then voted 
to refuse him his seat. 

STEPHENSON, D. C, Grand Dragon of 

the Indiana Klan, organizer of the 
Klan in 21 northern states. 

A natural born salesman, and one of 
the men who made Indiana the Klan 
state in 1924. Subsequently he had a bit 
of a row with Imperial Wizard Evans. 
Then he spoiled a hitherto brilliant ca- 
reer, by assaulting or doing something 
unfortunate to an Indianapolis girl, who 
took poison and died. Stephenson was 



SMALL, LENINGTON, State Treasurer 
under Governor Lowden, and Gov- 
ernor of Illinois from 1921-28. 
Governor Small was first elected with 
the support of Mayor Thompson, with 
whom he has usually been on good terms. 
With Lt. Governor Sterling and State 
Auditor Russell he was brought to trial 
for his administration as Treasurer, in 
which capacity he had kept part of the 
state funds in the "Grant Park Bank", 
it being charged that he used them to 
make money with in dealings with notes 
of Swift and of Armour, Chicago packing 
concerns. He was acquitted in 1922 of 
anything criminal, but he was subse- 
quently ordered to account for $1,000,- 
000 in interest withheld from the state. 
The case was finally carried to the State 
Supreme Court, which upheld his lia- 
bility for this amount, and denied motion 
for a rehearing (Feb. 1926). 

McCRAY, WARREN T., Governor of 
Indiana, 1921-24. 
Governor McCray got into financial 
difficulties during his term of office, and 
was convicted in 1924 of using the mails 
to defraud, and was sentenced to serve 
a ten-year term in Atlanta. In justice to 
the G.O.P., it must be admitted that in 
this particular case it seems to have 
been purely a personal and private graft. 

SINCLAIR, HARRY FORD, Oil Mag- 
nate. 
In this country it is rather hard to 
bring such a rich man to book. Mr. Sin- 
clair was finally imprisoned in 1929 for 
three months for "contempt of the Sen- 
ate", and an additional term of six 
months for jury shadowing. 

JACKSON, Major EDWARD, Governor 

of Indiana, 1924-28. 
Elected with Klan support, Governor 
Jackson was indicted in 1927, and tried 
for attempted bribery of Governor Mc- 
Cray in the appointment of the prosecu- 
tor of Marion County. Ex-Governor 
McCray and former Grand Dragon 
Stephenson were brought from prison; 
McCray testified that Jackson, then Secre- 
tary of State, had offered him $10,000 
and help in securing immunity, and 
Stephenson testified that he had put up 
the money. Jackson was acquitted on 
Feb. 16, 1928, Judge McCabe ruling 
that the prosecution had failed to show 
concealment up to the previous July, thus 
making the statute of limitations opera- 
tive. 



[92] 



FORBES, Col. CHARLES R., appointed 
by President Harding to head the 
newly-created Veterans' Bureau. 
Resigned in 1923 and was succeeded 
by Brig. Gen. G. T. Hines. 

In 1925 Forbes and John W. Thomp- 
son, wealthy St. Louis contractor, were 
convicted at Chicago of having con- 
spired to defraud the Government in con- 
tracts for soldiers' hospitals. Judge Car- 
penter handed down the usual sentences 
of 2 years and $10,000, and denied mo- 
tions for a new trial. The defendants 
nevertheless took the case to the circuit 
courts, but lost the appeal. Forbes began 



his sentence at Leavenworth in March 
1926. 

FALL, ALBERT BACON, Senator from 
New Mexico, Secretary of the In- 
terior, 1921-23. 

Mr. Fall signed the leases of Teapot 
Dome and Elk Hills oil reserves, the 
transfer of which to his department 
was one of the first acts of the Harding 
administration. He resigned early in 
1923. He weathered trials on several dif- 
ferent counts, but could not escape con- 
viction (1929) of receiving a $100,000 
bribe from Mr. Doheny. 



VARE, WILLIAM SCOTT, Representa- 
tive from Pennsylvania, and Senator- 
Elect. 

The Vare primary scandal of 1926 was 
investigated by the Read Committee 
along with the case of Smith of Illinois; 
and in addition the election was con- 
tested by Wilson, Vare's democratic op- 
ponent. The case took longer than 
Smith's, but the Senate finally barred 
him by a vote of 58-22, in December 
1929, at the same time ruling against 
Wilson. Governor Fisher appointed Mr. 
Joe Grundy, the tariff lobbyist, to fill the 
seat. 




Pulitzer Prize Cartoon, 1928 



TAMMANY!" 



September 24, 1928 



DAUGHERTY, HARRY MICAJAH, At- 
torney-General, 1921-24. 

Mr. Daugherty is generally credited 
with having secured the nomination of 
Warren G. Harding. He dominated the 



Cabinet and the Department of Justice 
in the palmy days of Normalcy. He em- 
ployed William J. Burns. There is a mass 
of testimony on this period in the news- 
papers of 1924, and in such books as 
The Strange Death of President Hard- 
ing, by Gaston Means. As for Colonel 



[93] 



Miller, Mr. Daugherty was his co-de- 
fendant in the American Metal Co. case, 
but escaped conviction by one vote. 

Mr. Daugherty stayed in the Cabinet 
till the end of March 1924, when Presi- 
dent Coolidge was finally forced to sug- 
gest it might look better if he resigned. 



St. Louis, October 11. — "But, my dear, 
our kind of people cannot vote for A. 
Smith. Fancy those people in the White 
House!" 

This argument, delivered with an in- 
flection of mixed surprise and amuse- 
ment, has perhaps changed more votes 
in the corn-stalk and tobacco country 
than any other form of propaganda ex- 
cept the anti-Catholic crusade. 



Letters dealing with Governor and 
Mrs. Smith's social qualifications, 
though unsigned, come by mail, always 
postmarked from some large city, as well 
as by the midnight messengers. They 
are variously addressed to: "My dear 
Church Member" or "Dear Mrs. So and 
So." 

From The Political Undertow, by 
Charles Michelson, in The World 
for Oct. 12. This sort of thing 
was not altogether confined to 
naive sewing circles in the mid- 
dle-west, either. 



f94l 







'I KNOW A GENTLEMAN WHEN I SEE ONE" 

October 21, 1928 



1 95] 



"It is not my purpose to enter upon a detailed recital of the great con- 
structive measures of the past seven and a half years by which this has 
been brought about. It is sufficient to remind you of the restoration of 
employment to the millions who walked your streets in idleness; to 
remind you of the creation of the national budget systems . . . the 
creation of credit facilities and many other aids to agriculture, the 
building up of foreign trade . . . the making of super highways, super 
mines, better homes. . . . 

"We have increased in home ownership, we have expanded the in- 
vestments of the average man. 

"In addition to these evidences of larger savings, our people are 
steadily increasing their spending for higher standards of living. . . . 
The slogan of progress is changing from the full dinner pail to the 
full garage." 

"Prosperity is no idle expression. It is a job for every worker; it is 
the safety and safeguard of every business and every home. A continua- 
tion of the policies of the Republican Party is fundamentally necessary 
to the further advancement of this progress and the building up of this 
prosperity." 

Herbert Hoover, speaking in Madison Square Garden, October 23, 1928 



[96] 



{. # 

,1 }' " 






'V. <--5* ,*J? *'¦ ..i 

< - 










ft? 

¦} ..*"<iy, ,: 



.-- -• S&X Ms;- / -• . ¦• .< 



touUf4 



'NOBODY BUT ME CAN MAKE YOU RICH" 

October 28, 1928 



[97] 



The entire West, dissatisfied farm 
states and all, gave their suffrages to 
Mr. Hoover in face of predictions that he 
would lose them on account of his op- 
position to the scheme of agricultural 
relief embodied in the McNary-Haugen 
bill. 

New York Times, Nov. 8 



Omaha, Nov. 5. — Hoover carried Ne- 
braska to-day and carried the entire 
state Republican ticket with him. Charles 
W. Bryan, Democratic candidate for 
Governor, was defeated. Hoover also car- 
ried R. B. Howell, Republican, for Sena- 
tor, to victory over Metcalfe. . . . On the 
face it looks like the women's vote over- 
turned Nebraska and placed it in the Re- 
publican column by probably 100,000. 
The farm vote, which was supposed to 
be going to follow Senator G. W. Norris, 
seems to have refused to follow him. 

New York Herald Tribune, Nov. 7 
Typical dispatch. Nebraska was 
one of the only two middle-western 
states conceded on Monday as 
doubtful. 



[98] 



jT^N 







'I THOUGHT YOU WERE REAL MAD" 

Not/ember g, ig28 



[99] 



It was . . . the room in which he had 
four times taken the oath as Chief Ex- 
ecutive of the State. ... He spoke of 
the growth of the State and its govern- 
ment in the quarter of a century of his 
experience, of his gratitude to all the 
State officials, of his sadness at leaving 
Albany. 

Then he turned to the taller man be- 
side him. 

"Frank," he said, "I congratulate 
you. I hope you will be able to devote 
that intelligent mind of yours to the 
problems of this State." 

He then congratulated Frank's mother, 
Mrs. James Roosevelt, who sat in the 
front row on the stage. 

"My mother was on that platform 
with me for two inaugurations," he said 
rather wistfully. 

Then he wished all the Roosevelts and 
their children health and happiness, 
adding for the benefit of the latter, "I 
left you as many animals as I could." 



"Good-by, Governor," came the calls 
from the gathering on the platform. 

"It's Al now," he called back, grinning. 
Then he added to his daughter, Mrs. 
John A. Warner: 

"Don't call me too early in the morn- 
ing, Emily. I'm out of a job now, and I 
can sleep late." 

Ernest K. Lindley: Special Dis- 
patch to The World, Jan. 2, 1929 



[ ioo ] 



v»: S-'FrM<T::":? r Y;-:"'. •.-';•'.¦.';¦':. .?.'¦/-- -v" ' ; - : ' 



..ssrz '. ' ' * ¦ 












' -w-4 



¦ihlJi 




HAIL AND FAREWELL 



December 31, 1928 



[101] 



Washington, Jan. 6. — President-elect 
Hoover arrived in Washington this 
morning in a drizzling rain and without 
much excitement or ceremony. . . . The 
Hoover party arrived from Old Point 
Comfort, Va., where it had disembarked 
from the U. S. S. Utah at 8 A. M., in a 
special train, laden down with all man- 
ner of baggage. . . . The important trav- 
eler looks fine, says he feels that way, 
and except for the tan of the Southern 
seas he has traversed, there was no 
change in his appearance. 



Washington, Jan. 7. — President-elect 
Hoover put in a solid eight-hour day to- 
day listening to recommendations of 
Cabinet candidates, learning there was 
no real chance to have a farm relief bill 
enacted during the present session of 
Congress, and therefore that an extra 
session would be held, and considering 
inauguration plans. 

All this was after a talk with Presi- 
dent Coolidge, about which the only tid- 
ings vouchsafed was that he reported on 
his good will tour of South America, and 
the President agreed it was a fine and 
successful journey. 

Special Dispatch to The World, by 
Charles Michelson, Jan. 7 and 8 



[l02j 







TRAVELOGUE 



January 8, 1929 



I 103 ] 



John Blymyer will go on trial here 
to-morrow. . . . Touchy as York County 
seems to be about this matter of witch- 
craft . . . there seems to be no help for 
it now. For Blymyer's lawyer said to- 
night his client would not plead guilty 
nor claim insanity, but would defend 
himself in all likelihood on the facts in 
the case, and this means nothing less, 
it seems, than proving the witchcraft of 
the victim, which may not be so differ- 
ent after all. 

Special to The World, Jan. 7 
(Dudley Nichols) 



Jan. 8. — There was reason enough for 
him to have faith in witchcraft. His 
unfortunate father and mother, sad, 
poverty-stricken, unlettered people, be- 
lieved in it heart and soul. . . . John had 
been powwowed for the "stummick 
fever" when a boy and had seen his 
father break an evil spell on the bony 
family horse by cutting a tuft of hair from 
its tail and burning it in the fireplace. 

So the thinning, pining, fear-ridden 
son found out, by visiting powwows and 
reading his magic book, "The Long Lost 
Friend", that the witch who had hexed 
him was none other than an elderly 
farmer, Nelson Rehmeyer, himself said 
to have been a powwow of great power 
and authority, a man he had known for 
years. Rehmeyer had not only hexed 
John Blymyer but the Hess farm and 
family three miles from York, and the 
Hesses all believed him when he told 
them so. 

He set out to break the hex by an im- 
memorial rite, the taking and burying 
of a witch knot (a lock of hair from the 
witch's head, to be buried eight feet 
underground) ; but when he confronted 
Rehmeyer, the strong man resisted. 

When taken by the law two days later, 
he showed no resistance, and readily 
confessed his part . . . unquestionably he 
deems he was justified. . . . 

The Commonwealth has finished its 
case against Blymyer ... he has ad- 
mitted no motive but money, for which 
the witch finders ransacked the victim's 
house afterwards. There is no such thing 
as hex in the Commonwealth's vocabu- 
lary. And thus have the powers of dark- 
ness been routed and the name of York 
kept fair. 

Ibid., Jan. 9 

The following day Blymyer was con- 
victed and sentenced to life imprison- 
ment. Trial of his accomplices proceeded. 
John Curry, 14, also received a life sen- 



tence. Wilbert Hess, 18, escaped with a 
conviction for second degree murder, 
carrying with it a sentence of ten 'so 
twenty years. 



From the bound volumes in the Public 
Library, we cull at random two (all we 
have room for) more cases of hexerei 
during the decade. The vampire story 
was used as an advertisement by the 
producers of "Dracula", then enjoying 
a run on the New York stage. 

Ellwood City, Pa., Dec. 22.— With 
tears streaming down her wrinkled face, 
Mrs. Augustino Tartarcio, called "the 
witch of Ellwood City", stood before 
Justice Ben G. Swick to-day and heard 
the trial, to determine in the minds of 
her fellow citizens in "Little Italy" 
whether she is leagued with evil spirits, 
postponed until January 3. . . . 

Some time ago he (her accuser) was 
selling a little cross guaranteed to keep 
the possessor in good health and ward 
off evil. . . . Angered by his living at the 
expense of her neighbors, she says, she 
told them there was no charm in Cap- 
nano's wares . . . (and he) spread the 
story of the evil spirits that Mrs. Tar- 
tarcio conjured up at will. But those to 
whom she is as truly "a witch" as was 
ever one of the victims of Salem super- 
stition 300 years ago, counter with 
specific instances of her power for harm. 
The World, Dec. 23, 1920 



Belief in the Vampire, most gruesome 
of ghosts, apparently still lives. Within 
the last ten days an effort seems to have 
been made to lay a vampire by the time- 
honored method of sinking a spike 
through the heart of his corpse. 

On a lonely farm in a wild portion of 
Long Island, eight miles south of the 
village of Huntington, lies a small 
graveyard. . . . Here, in August, 1857 
. . . they buried Francis Sands, a young 
farmer of the neighborhood. . . . The 
tract on which the cemetery lies was 
bought four years ago by Ernest A. 
Bigelow of New York. . . . Last Sunday 
Mr. Bigelow's son, Talmann Bigelow, 
and a friend, visited the farm. . . . 

To their amazement they found the 
grave of Francis Sands had been re- 
cently opened. Fresh earth was piled on 
either side of the grave, and a hole three 
feet deep had been made. But what 
startled them most was that into the 
earth at the bottom of the hole, exactly 
where the heart of the dead man would 
be, had been driven a hardwood stake. 
The World, Oct. 3, 1927 



[ 104] 



:: ¦ 



'¦¦'. 



':;': 



:' 



r~'-:- 



o>- 




• 



&' 






::'r~rT 




YORK, PA., 1929 



January 11, ig2g 



[105] 



Bishop James Cannon, Jr., of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church South, 
leader of the anti-Smith forces in the 
Democratic Party and Chairman of the 
Anti-Saloon League Legislative Com- 
mittee at Washington, was disclosed 
yesterday as one of the principal cus- 
tomers of Kable & Co., the officers of 
which are now under indictment for 
using the mails to defraud. 

The World, June 20, 1929 



Washington, June 20. — Bishop James 
Cannon, Jr., issued a formal statement 
this afternoon denouncing as an intru- 
sion upon his private affairs and as the 
work of "enemies" publication in the 
press that he had been one of the prin- 
cipal customers of Kable & Co. 



Senator Caraway (D., Ark.), a rock- 
ribbed dry, said to-day that he consid- 
ered it "morally indefensible" for a 
churchman to be engaged in stock oper- 
ations. 

"It is to be regretted," said Caraway, 
"that Bishop Cannon should forget him- 
self and become mixed up in stock 
gambling. . . . These acts of his will be 
used in the furtherance of a propaganda 
to discredit the movement" (the Noble 
Experiment) "with which he has been 
connected." 

Ibid., June 21 



The case of Bishop Cannon, in its va- 
rious ramifications, is not quite closed 
yet (Sept. 1931). 



[106] 




"ON THE PARTIAL PAYMENT PLAN" 



June 21, 1929 



[107] 



Boston, April 7. — H. L. Mencken, edi- 
tor of the American Mercury, was ac- 
quitted in Municipal Court to-day of 
possessing and selling obscene literature. 
. . . The arrest was made at the instance 
of the Rev. J. Frank Chase,* Secretary 
of the New England Watch and Ward 
Society, which caused the suppressions 
of the April issue of the magazine be- 
cause of an article entitled "Hatrack" 
dealing with moral conditions in a small 
Missouri Town. 

The World, Apr. 8, 1926 



Boston, March 11 (AP). — The Boston 
police, working with the Boston book- 
sellers' committee and the District Attor- 
ney, have suppressed nine books within 
the past few weeks, according to the 
Boston Herald. The police allege the 
books contained "obscene, indecent or im- 
pure language" or tended to corrupt the 
morals of youth. 

The books removed from the shelves of 
the local bookstore, the Herald says, 
are: "The Plastic Age," by Percy Marks; 
"The Rebel Bird," by Diana Patrick; 
"The Butcher Shop," by Jean Davanny; 
"The Ancient Hunger," by Edwin Gran- 
burry; "Antennae," by Herbert Fort- 
ner; "The Marriage Bed," by Ernest Pas- 
cal; "The Beadle," by Pauline Smith; 
"As It Was," by H. T.; and "The Hard 
Boiled Virgin," by Frances Newman. 

The Herald says Michael Crowley, Su- 
perintendent of Police, believed the books 
to be unsuitable for youthful readers and 
children. "Not one of them serves a good 
purpose, and I do not believe the police 
are depriving the book readers of Boston 
of anything they should legitimately 
have." 

The World, Mar. 12, 1927 



Boston, April 12. — District Attorney 
William J. Foley to-day suppressed 
"Elmer Gantry," Sinclair Lewis's sensa- 
tional novel attacking the ministry. . . . 
As a sequel to this action the Booksellers 
Committee to-morrow morning will de- 
liver to the District Attorney's office 
fifty-seven other books which, in the 
opinion of critics, are no less frank than 



"Elmer Gantry." Indications to-night are 
that the publishers . . . will be compelled 
to go into the fight. 

N. Y. Times, April 13, 1927 



Two more books have met official dis- 
approval. They are "An American Trag- 
edy," by Theodore Dreiser, and "Dooms- 
day," by Warwick Deeping, both pub- 
lished by Alfred A. Knopf Superinten- 
dent Crowley turned them over to his 
vice squad, headed by Captain George 
A. Patterson, for official criticism. Cap- 
tain Patterson reported that they con- 
tained "obscene language." Superinten- 
dent Crowley, after reading them en- 
dorsed this opinion and sent them to the 
District Attorney. 

Ibid., April 14 



Upton Sinclair, author of "The Jun- 
gle," "The Grave Step," "The Brass 
Check" and other novels, left New York 
last evening for Boston to appear in de- 
fense of his latest book "Oil!", which 
was proscribed in that city on May 31. 
. . . Mr. Sinclair was much amused that 
Judge John Duff had picked out one 
page, made up largely of quotations from 
the "Song of Solomon," as tending to 
sully the minds of youth. ... If the 
decision goes against him, Mr. Sinclair 
will emulate H. L. Mencken and arrange 
to sell a copy of "Oil!" on the Boston 
streets. 

Ibid., Jan. 8, 1928 

See also special article by F. Lauris- 
ton Bullard, July 3, Second Section. 



A number of well-known writers have 
united in a protest against Boston's ac- 
tion in banning Jim Tully's recently pub- 
lished book "Circus Parade," according 
to announcement yesterday of the Com- 
mittee for the Suppression of Irrespon- 
sible Censorship of 24 Fifth Avenue. 
. . . Among the signers of the statement 
are William Allen White, Fanny Hurst, 
. . . Achmed Abdullah, Samuel Hopkins 
Adams, Walter Pritchard Eaton . . . John 
Erskine, . . . and Margaret Leach. 

Ibid., Aug. 16, 1928 



Boston, Mass., May 3.— "Bad Girl," a 
new novel by Vina Delmar, has been 
barred in Boston, the Watch and Ward 
Society having set the stamp of its dis- 
approval on the work. 

Ibid., May 4, 1928 



The sensational German war book "All 
Quiet on the Western Front" will be is- 
sued for American perusal to-day, minus 
some of its stalwart words and starkly 
realistic episodes. This was disclosed yes- 
terday in Boston by an official of Little, 
Brown & Co. 

"The changes were made for two rea- 
sons. First, the book would be sent 
through the mail and we did not want to 
conflict with the Federal laws. Second, 
inasmuch as it was being published in 
Boston, we did not want to conflict with 
the Massachusetts book laws, which have 
been widely discussed recently and which 
are very stringent." 

Ibid., May 31, 1929 



Boston, June 20 (AP). — Boston news 
stands were bereft of the current issue 
of Scribner's Magazine to-day as a re- 
sult of action taken yesterday by Super- 
intendent of Police Michael H. Crowley. 
Crowley said he considered the current 
chapter of a serial by Ernest Heming- 
way, "A Farewell to Arms," highly ob- 
jectionable. 

The World, June 21, 1929 



Quincy, Mass., Sept. 27 (AP). — The 
committee of twenty-five local citizens 
which was to have judged the fitness of 
Eugene O'Neill's play "Strange Inter- 
lude" at its opening performance here 
next Monday will be unable to do so. All 
tickets for the first showing of the play 
have been sold and it appears that Mayor 
Thomas J. McGrath himself will have 
to decide whether the play will continue 
its scheduled run in this city. 

Subsequent to the barring of "Strange 
Interlude" in Boston the Theatre Guild 
decided to stage the play here. Mayor 
McGrath said he would have a committee 
of citizens view the play. 

The N. Y. Times, Sept. 28, 1929 



* The Rev. J. Frank Chase died in November of that year and was succeeded by the Rev. Chas. S. Bodwell. The student should 
be careful not to confuse him with Canon William Sheafe Chase of N. Y., who is memorable, among other things, for his 
attack on Mary Ware Dennett's book and his solicitude over the morals of Luis Angel Firpo. 



[108] 












BOSTON 



September 19, 1929 



[ IO9] 



With its nerves frayed by a month of 
steady pounding, the stock market sur- 
rendered yesterday to the most deter- 
mined bearish attack professional spec- 
ulators have engineered in the last year. 
The drive attained its immediate objec- 
tive in the last hour of trading when a 
thoroughly frightened public began 
dumping securities in disorganized 
rout. 

The frenzied dealings of the afternoon 
climaxed a day of persistent liquidation, 
piling up losses staggering in the aggre- 
gate. Market valuations melted like 
butter in the hot sunshine under the 
flood of orders which converged upon 
the floor of the New York Stock Ex- 
change by telegraph and telephone from 
every section of the country. 

More than 1,000,000 shares of stock 
changed hands between 2 and 3 P. M., 
clogging the ticker service. ... A rep- 
resentative list of thirty industrial is- 
sues closed with an average drop of 
14.55 points. 

Special Article by Lawrence Stern 
in The World, Oct. 4, 1929 



A steady stream of frightened selling 
poured into the stock market yesterday, 
depressing prices still further and pil- 
ing up the heaviest volume of transac- 
tions of the last six months. 

Ibid., Oct. 5 



The first sharp break, followed by a 
general rally during the subsequent 
week. Then a decline set in, gently at 
first. 



[no] 




'¦•• - 






TAIL HOLT 



October 5, 1920. 



[ill] 



Although feeling some of the lingering 
effects of the recent stock liquidations, 
the stock market went far yesterday 
towards re-establishment of normal 
trading conditions. . . . Obviously re- 
flecting an oversold condition, as well as 
the first genuinely strong buying which 
the market has enjoyed in many weeks, 
the rally requires little comment. . . . 
Meanwhile speculative and investment 
sentiment has been vastly encouraged 
by the market's upturn, by reassuring 
news credited to official Washington, 
and by the frankly optimistic remarks 
of Charles E. Mitchell, Chairman of the 
National City Bank. 

Lawrence Stern in The World, 
Oct. 23 



The stock market crumbled and col- 
lapsed in the final hour of trading yes- 
terday under the heaviest outburst of 
hysterical liquidation that Wall Street 
has experienced in many years. . . . The 
public was in a blue funk and its dizzy 
selling rush overwhelmed a not incon- 
siderable investment demand. . . . Not 
since . . . the outbreak of the World 
War have such scenes of disorder been 
enacted on its floor. 

The reaction cut more than $5,000,- 
000,000 from the aggregate market val- 
uation of securities listed on the vari- 



ous exchanges and spelled financial 
ruin for countless thousands of small 
investors. 



Lawrence Stern, 
article, Oct. 24 



front page 



The stock markets of the country 
teetered on the brink of panic yesterday 
as a prosperous people, gone suddenly 
hysterical with fear, attempted simul- 
taneously to sell a record-breaking volume 
of securities for whatever they would 
bring. . . . Into the frantic hands of a 
thousand brokers on the floor of the New 
York Stock Exchange poured the selling 
orders of the world. ... At Chicago, 
Detroit, Boston, Philadelphia, San 
Francisco, and other cities the local 
disorder was duplicated on a smaller 
scale. 

For the first time in Wall Street's his- 
tory, a promptly publicized financial 
disaster attracted crowds rivalling those 
which flock to fires or scenes of sensa- 
tional crime. . . . There was nothing to 
see. The story was being told in the 
cold arithmetic of dollars, visible only by 
quoted figures, meaningless to many, 
perhaps to the majority, but spelling 
the difference between poverty and com- 
fort, happiness and despair to the 
thousands committed on margin. 

Ibid., Oct. 25 



[112] 



: 
















1 



3ft 



'>: 



;¦: 












SOLD OUT 



October 25, 1929 



t"3] 



Washington, Dec. 27. — Prodded into 
action by the persistent nagging of the 
ultra dry element in Congress, President 
Hoover's Law Enforcement Commission 
has determined to make a preliminary 
report of its findings as soon as the 
stage is set in Congress for its recep- 
tion. 

Simultaneously the Department of 
Justice will ask Congress for substan- 
tial additional appropriations for en- 
largement of staffs of Federal Attor- 
neys' offices in anticipation of the 
greater burden of work when the 
enforcement problem is handed over to 
that department by the Treasury. 

Special Dispatch to The World 
(William C. Murphy, Jr.) 



Washington, Dec. 28. — The Prohibi- 
tion furore, occasioned by dissensions in 
the dry ranks over the question whether 
the Hoover Administration is making a 
sincere effort to enforce the lav/, con- 
tinued with renewed fury to-day. 

While two dry Administration Sen- 
ators issued appeals to "stand by the 
President", in the hope of stilling the 
chorus of criticism, Senator Borah (R., 
Idaho) returned to his charge that the 
enforcement personnel is not trying to 
make the law effective. 

He said that open saloons are running 
without molestation throughout the 
country, and that the alcohol permit is 
a scandal. 

Special Dispatch to The World 
(From The World's Bureau) 
Dec. 29, 1929. 

Ed. Note: Remove the President's 
name from this item, and ask the aver- 
age citizen to guess what year in the 
decade it was printed. 



[114] 







"DON'T MIND ME, GO RIGHT ON WORKING" 

December jo, 1929 



[115] 



Washington, Jan. 1. — The national 
capital to-day was assured by Senator 
Jones (R., Wash.), of five-and-ten law* 
fame, that President Hoover's Law 
Enforcement Commission does not plan 
to consider the wisdom or unwisdom of 
the Eighteenth Amendment. 



"I have conferred with several mem- 
bers of the commission," said Jones. "I 
am glad to learn that the commission is 
unanimous that the wisdom or unwis- 
dom of the Eighteenth Amendment is 
not involved in their work: that it's a 
part of the Constitution and that the 
function of the commission is to devise 
the best means possible for its enforce- 
ment. 



"Some members of the commission 
think that the Prohibition phase of their 
work can be done within three or four 
months, and all whom I have seen agree 
it can be completed by July 1 at the 
latest. This should be done. ... I want 
to say now that if more money is sought, 
a clear and convincing showing of its 
needs will have to be made before such 
money is provided." 

Jones is slated to become Chairman 
of the Senate Appropriations Committee 
as soon as Congress reassembles, and 
thus will be in a position to exert a 
powerful influence upon the granting or 
withholding of further funds for the 
commission. 



"In my judgment" (Jones declared) 
"if the commission can devise a method 
by which punishment for law violations 
can be made more swift and sure, it 
will fully have justified its creation." 

Special Dispatch to The World 
(From The World's Bureau) 

* Senator Jones (appropriately named 
Wesley) was the sponsor of the bill mak- 
ing the maximum penalty for prohibition 
violations $10,000 or five years in jail or 
both. It was passed by the Senate Feb. 
19, 1929, and by the House in time to be 
signed by President Coolidge. 



[116] 







"NOW SEE HERE, YOUNG MAN, I WANT A SCIENTIFIC REPORT 
REACHING MY CONCLUSIONS, AND I WANT IT BY JULY ist." 

January 3, 1930 



[117] 



Washington, Jan. 29. — For the first 
time since the Eighteenth Amendment 
went into effect, a Congressional com- 
mittee today consented to hold hearings 
on measures seeking the outright repeal 
or modification of the prohibition laws. 

Feb. 12 was fixed by the House Judi- 
ciary Committee for starting hearings 
on seven measures introduced at this 
session. They include the La Guardia 
resolution for the restoration of States' 
rights in the control of liquor, the Coch- 
ran resolution to repeal the amendment 
entirely and the Cochran resolution to 
exempt 3 per cent beer and light wines 
from the operations of the Volstead 
Act, the Sabath, Clancy and Igoe reso- 
lutions for absolute repeal and the reso- 
lution of Mrs. Norton of New Jersey 
calling for a referendum on the Eight- 
eenth Amendment. 

N. Y. Times, Jan. 30, 1930 



Washington, Feb. 13 (AP).— The 
wariness of the seller to-day blocked 
efforts of the government to test whether 
the buyer of liquor is guilty of violating 
the prohibition laws. With a man in 
court whom they described as having 
been arrested after coming from a 
speakeasy with half a pint of gin in his 
pocket, detectives cast about in vain for 
a person who would admit selling it to 
him. . . . The case against Mr. Carley 
had been regarded by Federal authori- 
ties as one which would determine 
whether they would be able to proceed 
under the present prohibition laws 
against buyers of liquor. ... A bill had 
been introduced by Senator Sheppard of 
Texas, Democrat, of Texas, designed to 
make the buyer equally guilty with the 
seller, and Mr. Lowman had expressed 
belief that if the charges against Mr. 
Carley had been sustained, the Sheppard 
Amendment would have been unneces- 
sary, District of Columbia officials said 
to-night, however, they intended to cast 
about for another buyer to test the law. 
They expressed a determination next 
time to have a seller who would admit 
vending the liquor. 

Ibid., Feb. 14 



Columbus, Ohio, Feb. 19. — Letters 
which William Green, president of the 
American Federation of Labor, sent to 
President Hoover and to George W. 
Wickersham, chairman of the National 
Law Observance and Enforcement Com- 
mission, were made public today. 

President Green asked modification of 
the Volstead Act to permit the manu- 
facture of beer as an economic and tem- 
perance measure. 

Ibid., Feb. 20 

Atlantic City, N. J., Sept. 12.— The 
Boston convention of the American Fed- 
eration of Labor on Oct. 6 will be asked 
to adopt a strongly worded resolution 
favoring modification of the Volstead 
Act to permit the manufacture and sale 
of beer with 2.75 per cent alcoholic con- 
tent, it was learned today, following the 
final session here of the Executive Coun- 
cil of the Federation. 



The grounds on which the appeal for 
modification will be made to labor's par- 
liament in its Boston session will be 
economic. An exhaustive section of the 
Executive Council's report will go into 
the effect that modification of the Vol- 
stead Act would have on the unemploy- 
ment situation. 

Ibid., Sept. 13 



Washington, Jan. 9. — Prohibition en- 
forcement officials, satisfied that their 
efforts to cut down the diversion of legal 
alcohol to bootleg use are proving suc- 
cessful, have turned their attention to 
checking the wholesale illicit manufac- 
ture of alcohol from corn sugar, Assis- 
tant Secretary Lowman said to-day. 

A report by Prohibition Commissioner 
Doran indicated the concern officials are 
showing over the rise of this method of 
flouting the dry laws, declaring that of 
3,864 stills seized during the last year in 
the Northeastern States 3,430 were of 
the type manufacturing alcohol of the 
best grade from corn sugar. . . . 

The plants used for the production of 
alcohol from corn sugar, he asserted, 
were generally of the most modern type, 



constructed by expert chemists, some of 
them being capable of producing from 
500 to 2,000 gallons of alcohol daily. 

"Such plants in some cases were larger 
than plants producing alcohol legally," 
he asserted. "If the operators can escape 
arrest for three months, it is possible 
for them to pay for the plant and pocket 
a comfortable profit." 

Dr. Doran said that 6,000,000 pounds 
of corn sugar were seized in connection 
with the seizure of such stills last year 
and that agents had seized a distillery 
near Cincinnati a year ago which had 
consumed seventy-nine cars of corn 
sugar in three months or a total of al- 
most 4,000,000 pounds. 

Ibid., Jan. 10 

Atlanta, Ga., April 8. — The American 
Chemical Society formally registered 
the judgment of the chemical industry 
of the United States here today that the 
source of bootleg alcohol is now corn, 
and voted to so inform Congress. The 
analysis was made by a special commit- 
tee on industrial alcohol. . . . 

"Industrial alcohol, which is necessary 
to the success of our chemical industries, 
has been made a scapegoat on all sides. 
It has been a political football. . . . The 
diversion and cleaning of denatured 
alcohol, however, has become increasing- 
ly difficult and expensive, and the 
amount so diverted is an unimportant 
part of the supply of bootleg liquor, 
nearly all of which comes from cheaper 
sources more easily worked." 

Ibid., Apr. 9 



Major Maurice Campbell, Prohibition 
Administrator in the New York area for 
the last three years, stepped out of office 
yesterday, declaring himself a convert 
to repeal of the eighteenth amendment, 
and charging insincerity on the part of 
certain Treasury officials in the enforce- 
ment of the Prohibition law. 

N. Y. Herald Tribune, July 1 

As this volume goes to press, the 
first number of Major Campbell's 
new magazine, Repeal, has just 
appeared on the newsstands. 



[«8] 



..¦ ¦ ¦ - ¦' " . ¦. ' ' ' , .. ' ¦ ' v. ¦ -^l ' ' ' ¦ ' " ' , ' ,. ""-"""V-.J M "' 






&: 




THE LEANING TOWER SHOWS SIGNS OF COLLAPSE 

May 25, /930 



[119] 



We need more faith in ourselves. Largely because of some decline in trade we have 
set about finding fault with nearly everybody and everything. . . . My countrymen, 
it is time to stop criticising and quarreling and begin sympathizing and helping! 



EDITORIAL COMMENT REPRINTED IN THE 
HERALD TRIBUNE, JULY 2. 

No other President ever did anything 
quite like this. . . . He is to be, for an 
indefinite time, a sort of daily oracle. 

It would be a churlish newspaper that 
did not welcome Mr. Coolidge's joining 
the press. ... It is a real tribute which 
he pays to the flying sheets of the daily 
press to choose them as the medium for 
addressing his fellow countrymen. He is 
a distinct accession to the Fourth Estate. 

N. Y. Times 

We have been wondering whether the 
promised daily newspaper articles would 
be most like the humorous paragraphing 
of Will Rogers, lengthy discussions of 
Heywood Broun, or the lay sermons of 
the late Dr. Frank Crane. If we are to 
judge by the first one. . . . they should 
be very like himself — thoughtful, moder- 
ate, with no small hitch and touching 
broadly on matters of general concern. 
Hartford Times 

Calvin Coolidge speaks out of the real 
thought of the people at a time when the 
propagandist's jingoes and seekers of 
momentary notice would raise the smoke 
screens and cry the alarms. 

Oakland (Calif.) Tribune 

It is fortunate for the people of this 
country that the former President 
selected the daily newspaper as the field 
of his activity. It would have been a real 
loss to them had they been deprived of 
the sound judgment and sage counsel of 
the former President, who has demon- 
strated a remarkable faculty for catching 
the spirit of the American people and 
understanding their mind and moods. 
Louisville (Ky.) Herald-Post 



Keynote article, July 1, 1930 
* CHARACTERISTIC UTTERANCES 

If those who are working and have the 
means would pay all their retail mer- 
chandise bills and in addition purchase 
what they need and can afford, a healthy 
commerce would quickly be created. 

July 3, 1930 

After a session of about fifteen months 
the Congress has finally adjourned. 

It will be subject to considerable criti- 
cism which will be largely useless. With 
the direct primaries in most states and 
the popular election of Senators, the 
present perversion of legislation is un- 
avoidable. But Congress has much of 
accomplishment. 

July 5 

While our tourists will find many 
things to admire and some to emulate, a 
careful investigation will convince them 
that the general condition of the people 
of their own country is unsurpassed. 
. . . Those who do not (return content) 
will not be of great consequence. 

July 7 

The vacation season has come again. 
. . . If we are to do work of the highest 
excellence our periods of high activity 
must be followed by periods of rest. 

July 26 

Like many other seeming difficulties, it 
will be solved by everybody patiently 
doing what the Constitution directs. 

June 11, 1931 



Mr. Coolidge's articles ran for exactly 
a year, it was then announced that he 
would take a vacation till October 1. 



* His first month's work was wittily summarized in "Cluckings of Calvin", by Herbert 
Fordham, in The Nation for Sept. 10, 1930. 



[ 120 ] 




THE FOURTH ESTATE" 



July 2J, 1930 



[121] 



Washington, Oct. 25. — Reports of 
campaign expenditures by the Anti- 
Saloon League, the Association Against 
the Prohibition Amendment, and the 
Democratic Congressional Committee 
were filed to-day with the clerk of 
House of Representatives. . . . The 
campaign committee of the Anti-Saloon 
League reported receipts from Jan. 1 
to Oct. 22 of $5,705 and expenditures 
during the same period of $3,915. The 
Association Against the Prohibition 
Amendment reported receipts from Jan. 
1 to Oct. 21 of $647,564. . . . 

New York Times, Oct. 26 



Receipts of the Anti-Saloon League 
for the same period in 1928 were 
$56,299, and these of the A. A. P. A., 
$316,487. 



[ 122] 





i.i 


i " 




'. 


w 


j 




«£-.*» 


ft / 


1,1 


r 


; i 




• 

':•; /; 


i 


N. ' 


i'. 


.-•>' --"' 
^...:, 





':¦¦:¦ :-.-'¦>, 
.'¦¦' - ; 

i. ' *. 




Wm^& 



THE ECONOMIC DEPRESSION HITS A NOBLE EXPERIMENT 

October 2j, 1930 



[123] 



"The amount of unemployment is, in 
proportion to the number of workers, 
considerably less than one-half (possibly 
only one-third) of that which resulted 
from the crashes of 1907-08 and 1920- 
22, at this period of the situation. . . . 
All the evidences indicate that the worst 
effects of the crash upon employment 
will have been passed during the next 
sixty days. . . ." 

Statement of the President, Mar. 
7, 1930 



The National Unemployment League 
made public yesterday a statement, ap- 
pealing for relief to President Hoover 
and Congress. . . . The appeal points 
out that at the time of the President's 
Conference on Unemployment in 1921 
it was believed generally that the nation 
"would never again be found unprepared 
should another period of industrial de- 
pression come upon us; yet we are to- 
day unprepared to cope with the present 
crisis even as we were in 1914-15 and 
1921-22 . . . the situation has grown 
steadily worse in the months since the 
Wall Street collapse and the holding of 
these conferences . . ." (of business 
leaders called by the President in Wash- 
ington). 

New York Times, April 20, 1930 



Business is on the uprising and wages 



are holding firm, according to nation- 
wide survey presented to the National 
Association of Manufacturers. . . . 

"A summary of the general averages 
of the replies to the questionnaire gives 
the following: 

"Present trade was reported excellent 
by 2 per cent, good by 15 per cent, fair 
by 47, with 30 per cent pronouncing it 
poor. 

"Prospects for Winter were considered 
excellent by 2 per cent, good by 18 per 
cent, fair by 59, and poorly by the re- 
mainder. 

"Better business than last Fall was 
noted by 5 per cent, worse by 80 per cent, 
unchanged by 14 per cent. 

"A decrease in employment over last 
Fall was reported by 68 per cent, with 
29 per cent reporting no change, and 
3 per cent an increase." 

Ibid., Oct. 7, 1930. 
***** 

"Prosperity is no idle expression. It is 
a job for every worker; it is the safety 
and safeguard of every business and 
every home. A continuation of the 
policies of the Republican Party is fun- 
damentally necessary to the further ad- 
vancement of this progress and the 
building up of this prosperity." 

From the address of President 
Hoover, Oct. 23, 1928, as quoted 
above on page 96 



[124] 







SAD ACCIDENT TO A POLITICAL SANDOW 

October 2<), 1930 



[125] 



1930 

Washington, Nov. 21. — The sale of 
grape concentrate ... is a serious blow 
to prohibition, Dr. Clarence True Wil- 
son, general secretary of the Methodist 
Board of Temperance, declared to-day. 
. . . The manufacture and sale of a 
grape product which becomes actual 
wine after fermentation, Dr. Wilson 
declared, is an experiment "more dan- 
gerous to the success of prohibition than 
any evolved since the Eighteenth 
Amendment became effective. ... If it 
can be proved that this can be done 
legally," he said, "it only shows that 
there is need for another amendment to 
the Volstead Act. While it may be with- 
in the letter of the law, it violates the 
intent of prohibition. As I see it, it rep- 
resents a frank betrayal of all that 
temperance workers have sought to 
bring about. 

"We were so used to leaving every- 
thing to Mrs. Willebrandt, who repre- 
sented our side for years, that our eyes 
were not opened to the fact that she is 
now attorney for the grape-growing in- 
dustry of California," he added. "We 
were asleep at the switch while this 
thing got started." 

N. Y. Times, Nov. 22, 1930 

"We had an idea," he added, "that 
anything that Mrs. Willebrandt did 
would be about right. Evidently she was 
working for her clients and not for us." 

The Fruit Industries (Inc.) was or- 
ganized to handle the output of the 
California fruit co-operatives after the 
Federal Farm Board had approved a 
loan of $16,000,000 to a growers' organ- 
ization united in a grape control board. 
The World, same date 

See "Mabel Pulls the Bung," by 
Wayne Card, in Vanity Fair for August, 
1931. 



1931 

Washington, Aug. 7. — In a bitter at- 
tack on official approval of the sale of 
wine bricks and grape concentrates the 
Methodist Board of Prohibition, Temper- 
ance and Public Morals today charged 
that the United States government was 
financing and participating in large 
scale bootlegging. 



The allegation is a reprint from a re- 
cent article in the Adult Bible Class 
Monthly, and it will be republished in 
The Voice, a monthly Methodist publica- 
tion with circulation among 10,000 min- 
isters and church leaders. 

Besides assailing Mrs. Mabel Walker 
Willebrandt, counsel for Fruit Indus- 
tries, Ltd., as an angel fallen from the 
prohibitionists' paradise the article re- 
veals that she and other Californians 
connected with this concern tried to ob- 
tain a monopoly in the distribution of 
wine tonics having only 22 per cent of 
solids. 

Although prohibition officials refused 
to give the monopolistic control frankly 
demanded by the former Joan of Arc of 
the Drys, they reduced the requirement 
of solids from 30 to 22 per cent for lim- 
ited distribution of wine tonics. 

The article exonerates President 
Hoover of the official evasion it alleges 
against his California friends connected 
with Fruit Industries. 

"In order that there should be no mis- 
understanding," the indictment con- 
tinues, "it should be made clear that the 
Farm Board is a bureau directly respon- 
sible to Congress and not to the Presi- 
dent, who consequently can only advise 
as to its policies." 

But for Mrs. Willebrandt, who mobi- 
lized the Methodists against Al Smith in 
the 1928 Presidential campaign, the 
article has nothing but mean words. 

By Ray Tucker, World-Telegram Staff 
Correspondent 



Aug. 8, 1931 

"For two years," the article says, 
"The Board of Temperance, Prohibition 
and Public Morals has watched with 
great apprehension the development of a 
flank attack upon the very citadel of 
prohibition. The United States govern- 
ment itself, by loans of the Farm Board, 
has directly fostered the development of 
a nationwide industry in partially man- 
ufactured wines, and this development 
has now reached the point where agents 
of Fruit Industries, Ltd., dealers in 
Vine-Glo, are going from house to house 
urging the mothers of children to pur- 
chase wine-grapejuice in five, ten, or 
twenty-five-gallon kegs. Unmolested, 
this juice becomes a highly intoxicating 
wine within a few weeks. 



"It is supplied in eight wine flavors, 
port, claret, Virginia Dare, tokay, mus- 
catel, riesling, burgundy and sauterne, 
and, to quote advertising, 'carries an ab- 
solute guarantee of satisfaction or the 
purchase price will be refunded.' 

"There need be no controversy as to 
what is being done. The 'grape juice' 
delivered to the housewife may not be 
intoxicating — when delivered. It inevi- 
tably becomes intoxicating. It is intended 
that it shall become intoxicating. 

"Through its loans in promotion of 
this traffic, the government participates 
in the systematic and effective evasion 
of the spirit and intent of the national 
prohibition amendment. It is an anoma- 
lous situation. With one hand, the gov- 
ernment brings to the home where little 
children gather around the table, wines 
containing as much as 12 per cent of 
alcohol, highly intoxicating and degener- 
ative. With the other hand it points to 
the Eighteenth Amendment, forbidding 
traffic in intoxicating liquors." 

"It is disconcerting that Mrs. Mabel 
Walker Willebrandt, until recently As- 
sistant Attorney General of the United 
States, a woman whose eloquent voice 
has been raised in Methodist conferences 
and in the councils of dry leaders, is the 
able and energetic attorney of Fruit In- 
dustries, Ltd. She it is through whom 
the government has been won to this 
benevolent attitude toward a traffic so 
inimical to temperance. She it is who 
has convinced the government that this 
traffic is not in fact in violation of the 
terms of the Volstead Act. She it is 
whose high standing with the devoted 
temperance people of the United States 
may have convinced the government that 
this arrangement would not be subjected 
to the criticism of 'dry' groups. 

"Mrs. Willebrandt is not an officer of 
this corporation; she is its attorney. 
The worst criminal is entitled to advice 
of counsel, but it is a sad, indeed a dis- 
tressing thing that in the very nature 
of the case, Fruit Industries, Ltd., may 
have felt that it was buying not only 
advice of counsel but influence with 
government and assurance of 'dry' ac- 
quiescence." 

The article in question (written by 
Deets Pickett), as quoted in the N. Y. 
Herald Tribune, Aug. 8. 



[126] 







THE LOST SHEEP 



December 10, ig^o 



[127] 



THE SMOTHERING OF THE 
REPORT 

By a coincidence so ingenious that it 
might almost have been planned in ad- 
vance the Wickersham report was pub- 
lished in such a way as to misrepresent 
it. The coincidence, as we shall continue 
politely to call it, depended upon the 
mechanics of news distribution in the 
United States. On Monday about noon 
the papers of the country received by 
telegraph the official "summary" of the 
report. This "summary" was so ar- 
ranged as to blazon forth three half 
truths — namely, that the commission is 
opposed to repeal, to the governmental 
sale of liquor and to modification for 
light wines and beer. 



By another coincidence the fictitious 
dryness of the "summary" was empha- 
sized further by the President's message 
of transmittal. Had the thing been 
planned that way the President could 
not have done more to smother the 
prompt realization by the rural and 
small-town newspaper readers that his 
commission had condemned prohibition. 
Thus we have two coinciding coin- 
cidences, a false summary and a false 
presidential message, both timed by co- 
incidence, to hide what the report con- 
tains. If the country had not repeatedly 
been assured that this administration is 
devoted to the principle of fact-finding, 
these coincidences would have to be de- 



scribed as a manipulation of public 
opinion for purposes of propaganda. 

From the leading editorial in The 
World, January 23 



The commission, by a large majority, 
does not favor the repeal of the Eight- 
eenth Amendment as a method of cure 
for the inherent abuses of the liquor 
traffic. 

I am in accord with this view. 

I am in unity with the spirit of the 
report in seeking constructive steps to 
advance the national ideal of eradication 
of the social and economic and political 
evils of this traffic, to preserve the gains 
which have been made, and to eliminate 
the abuses which exist, at the same time 
facing with an open mind the difficulties 
which have arisen under this experi- 
ment. 

I do, however, see serious objections 
to, and therefore must not be understood 
as recommending, the commission's pro- 
posed revision of the Eighteenth Amend- 
ment which is suggested by them for 
possible consideration at some future 
time if the continued effort at enforce- 
ment should not prove successful. My 
own duty and that of all executive offi- 
cials is clear — to enforce the law with 
all the means at our disposal without 
equivocation or reservation. 

From the text of the President's 
message transmitting the Wick- 
ersham Commission's report to 
Congress, January 20. 



[128] 







HOSANNAH! 



January 23, 1931 



I 129] 



From "Normalcy" to "Temporary Readjustment" 



% 



+20 



? 10 



NOR 



-10 



-20 



/-.WHOLESALE 
PRICES 



•30 



•40 1 




POST-WR 
DEPRESSION 



% 



+20 



+ 10 



100 NCR 



80-10 



60-20 



DEPRESSION 
OF THE 30'S 



--30 



¦40 



| 1919 | 1920 | 1921 | 1922 1 1923 ] 1924 | 192S | 1926 | 1927 | 1928 ] 1929 | 1930 | 1931 

From AMERICAN INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY SINCE 1864 ("Depressions never last"), 
by Col. Leonard P. Ayres, reproduced by permission of Col. Ayres and the Cleveland Trust 
Co. The index is computed so that the average for 1929 equals 100. Though a chart of busi- 
ness activity, especially in basic industries, rather than a stock, market graph, the latter would 
be found very closely related to it at vital points. 

"Thus far our national response has been to stand pat in all such mat- 
ters, and to believe that in sixty days, ninety days, or six months, the 
dove would return with the olive branch, the flood would recede and 
business would go on as usual. In anticipation of this happy event the 
stock market has now, I believe, indulged in five separate little bull 
movements, and it would be cruel to recall the number of times our 
authorized prophets have announced that the turn was at hand." 

From "Magical Prosperity", the first of Walter 
Lippmann's "To-day and To-morrow" articles. 

New Yor\ Herald Tribune, Sept. 8, 1931 
Copyright 1931, by New York Herald Tribune 



[ 130] 




'PLEASE GO AWAY" 



October 3, 1930 



[131] 



INDEX OF PERSONALITIES AND CHARACTERS 

The right-hand column indicates pictorial representation by Mr. Kirby, the left-hand column text 
references. Staff writers, feature writers, and others from whose (usually) signed articles we have quoted, 
will be found in italics. The most important historical characters are in caps and small caps. We trust no one 
will feel either slighted or overemphasized. 



Abdullah, Achmed, author. 

Among signators of protest 
against ban on "Circus Pa- 
rade" in Boston 

Adams, Samuel Hopkins, author 
("Revelry"). 
Ditto 

American Legion 

Anderson, William H[amilton], 
notorious Dry Worker 

Anti-Saloon League, see Prohibi- 
tion, Spirit of. 

Ayres, Col. Leonard P. (Cleve- 
land Trust Co.) 
Part of his Business Chart re- 
produced 



B 



Baker, Purley A., notorious Dry 

Barkley, Alborn W., Dry Con- 
gressman (D., Ky.) 

Bausman, Frederick, former Jus- 
tice Wash. State Supreme 
Court. 
Appears in Chicago Trial as 
witness against Insidious Al- 
bion 

Bear (Market) 

Berman, Mrs. Gussie. 

Berman, Dr. Isidor. 

Subtenants of premises used for 
Government Speakeasy 

Bickie, Ralph W., Federal Under- 
cover Agent 

Bigelow, Ernest A. 

Owner of land containing 
Sands' (q.v.) grave 

Bigelow, Talman, son of the 
above. 
Discoverer of hardwood stake 
driven into grave 

Bielaski, A. Bruce, Head of 
Undercover Operators 



PAGE 
Text Cartoon 



108 



108 
26 

26 



130 

26 
26 

82 



70 
70 

104 

104 
70 



27 



111 
131 



Black, Carlos, Adj.-Gen., Nat'l 
Guard. 
Ordered to Chicago to keep 
order during election 
Blymyer, John. 

Principal defendant in "hex" 

trial, York, Pa. 

Bodwell, Rev. Chas. S., successor 

of the late Rev. J. Frank 

Chase (q.v.) footnote 

Borah, William Edgar, U. S. Sen. 

(R., Idaho) 

Cited by Times as anti-League 

Assails Legion for political 

threats 
Heflin tries to drag him into 

the anti-Smith crusade 
Calls dry enforcement condi- 
tions scandalous 
Borton, A. J., Dry Worker 
Boston (as dear old lady book- 
seller) 
Brain, Joseph. 

Recipient of letter from Slemp 

on behalf of the President, 

emphasizing Mr. Coolidge's 

firm stand against the Klan 

Brookhart, Smith Wildman, U. S. 

Sen. (R., la.) 
Broun, Heywood, columnist (N. 
Y. Telegram). 
Referred to in editorial com- 
ment on Coolidge's daily 
oracles 
Bryan, Charles W[ayland], run- 
ning-mate of Davis, 1924. 
Regarded as dangerous radical 
Candidate for Governor of Ne- 
braska, defeated in Hoover 
landslide 
Bryan, William Jennings. 
Present at last rites of John 

Barleycorn 
At Democratic Convention, San 

Francisco, 1920 
Scopes Trial, death 



PAGE 

Text Cartoon 



74 



104 



108 



14 

26 

90 

114 
26 



109 



48 



40 



120 



50 



98 



10 
56-58 



11 

57-59 



[132] 



Burns, William J., master sleuth. 
Employee of Att'y-Gen. Daugh- 
erty, Dept. of Justice 
Butler, Dr. Nicholas Murray, 
Pres. Columbia Univ., Wet 
Repub. 
Thinks Coolidge will not run 
again 
Butler, William M [organ]. 

Coolidge's campaign manager, 
1924 



Campbell, Maj. Maurice, Prohibi- 
tion Administrator, N. Y. 
Quits in disgust, 1930; an- 
nounces self wet convert 
Cannon, James, Jr., Bishop, M. E. 
Church South; notorious Dry 
Signator, announcement of 
new Dry drive 
Disclosed as customer of Kable 
& Co., stockbrokers 
Capone, Alphonse ("Scarface"). 
Name appears in connection 
with killings, 1926 and 1929 
Capone, Ralph, brother of the 
w. k. Al Capone. 
Arsenal found in raid on his 
home, 1926 
Caraway, Thaddeus H., U. S. 
Sen. (D., Ark.). 
Ref. to an attack on Daugherty, 

1922 
His charges initiate Frank L. 

Smith Senatorial Scandal 
Calls stock speculation by the 
clergy "morally indefensible" 
Carpenter, Geo. Albert, U. S. Dis- 
trict Judge, Chicago. 
Sentences Col. Forbes and J. W. 
Thompson, (q.v.) 
Chamberlain, Sir Austen, at sign- 
ing of Locarno treaties 
Chase, Rev. J. Frank, vice hound, 
Sec'y of New England Watch 
and Ward Society 
Chase, Canon Wm. Sheafe, ama- 
teur vice hound footnote 
Cherrington, E. H. (World 
League Against Alcoholism) . 
Signator of dry campaign an- 
nouncement 
Civilization (personified). 

"Into the Light" 
Cohen, Maj. John S., Dem. Nat'l 
Committeeman (Ga.). 
Host of J. J. Walker, 1925 
Colby (Bainbridge) , Sec'y of 
State. 
Signs Proclamation making 
Woman Suffrage Amendment 
effective 



PAGE 

Text Cartoon 



92 



72 



46 



45 



118 

26 
106 

68 

68 

28 

92 

106 

92 
62 

108 
108 

26 
60 
16 



107 



63 



PAGE 

Text Cartoon 



Collins, Morgan A., Chief of Po- 
lice, Chicago. 
Takes unusual precautions to 
prevent violence during elec- 
tions, Apr. 1927 
Congress 

(as Gold Brick salesman) 
Juggling Bonus 
(clown thru hoops) 
Coolidge, Calvin, Governor, (R., 
Mass.), Vice-Presidential 
Candidate. 
First speech 

, V.P.-elect. 

Statement on election, quoted 
-, President. 



Congress passes Bonus over his 
veto 

Quotation on League from first 
message as President 
Accepts nomination, Aug., 1924. 
Makes terse remarks on cor- 
ruption. "The government is 
sound." 

Extolled in speech by Nathaniel 
Eisberg 
, President, Candidate. 

Vacation at Plymouth, Vt., Old 
Homestead, summer 1924 

Silent campaign of 1924 

Stand on Klan 

-, President (1925-29) as 



handshaker. Bust of him in 

cartoon 
Official Spokesman 
As Sphinx. "Third Term?" 
, President. 



"Do I Hear Firing?" 

Does not choose to run. Shows 

that he meant it, too 
Depicted as Shakespeare's 

"Julius Caesar" 
Puts the Navy Oil Reserves 

back where they belong, Aug. 

1927 
Hoover reports on good-will 

tour 
Signs Jones ("Five and Ten") 

Law footnote 
, Ex-President. 



Feature Writer for well-known 
New York paper 

Coolidge, Calvin (Herald Tribune) 

Coolidge, Mrs. Calvin (Grace A. 
Goodhue) 

Coolidge, Col. John Calvin 

Gets ahead of son Cal on the 
haymaking 

Cooper, John G., Dry Repre- 
sentative, (R., O.) 

Couzens, James, U. S. Sen., (R., 
Mich.). 



74 



12 
20 

24 
36 

38 

40 



44 
46 
48 



54 
64 
72 



88 

92 
102 
116 



120 
120 

44 



44 
26 



19 
25 
27 



47 

55 
73 
85 

89 
103 
121 



[ 133] 



Appointed (1922) to fill seat 
left vacant by resignation of 
Mr. Newberry 
Covered wagon, ghost of the old 
Crampton, Louis C, Dry Repre- 
sentative, (R., Mich.) 
Crane, Dr. Frank. 

Referred to in editorial com- 
ment on Coolidge's daily 
oracles 
Crawford, William J. (World) 
Crawford, William. R. (Times) 
Crisp, Chas. R., Representative 
(D., Ga.). 
Favoring emergency tariff, 
Dec. 1920 
Crowley, Michael, vice hunting 
Supt. of Police, Boston, Mass. 
Curry, John, juvenile accomplice 
of Blymyer in York, Pa., 
"hex" murder 



Daniels, Josephus, Sec'y of Navy 
at Last Rites of John Barley- 
corn 
Darrow, Clarence, criminal law- 
yer defending Scopes, 1925 
Daugherty, Harry M[icajah] 
Att'y-Gen., Ohio Gang. 
Resignation would be accept- 
able in view of 1922 cam- 
paign 
Note on career 
Davanny, Jean, author. 

Book banned in Boston 
Davis, John W., Dem. candidate, 
1924. 
Nominated 
Denounces Klan 
Dawes, Chas. Gates, Brig.-Gen. 
Vice Pres. Candidate, 1924. 
Will do the talking 
Speaks on Klan at Augusta, on 

politicians at Sioux Falls 
Warns voters of radicalism 
Death 
Deeping, Warwick, author. 

Book banned in Boston 
Delmar, Vina, author. 

Book banned in Boston, 1928 
Democratic Party (as Donkey). 
"Back in Death Valley" 
"The Synthetic Cowboy" 

(Southern Wing) as 

Southern Colonel 
Denby, Edwin, Sec'y of Navy 

under Harding 
Dennett, (Mrs.) Mary Ware, 
author : 
"The Sex Side of Life", footnote 
Dever, William E., Mayor of 
Chicago. 



page 
Text Cartoon 



92 
26 



120 

88 
50 



18 
108 

104 



4 
56 



28 
92 

108 



42 
48 



44 

48 
50 



108 
108 



33 



93 



92 
108 



71 



11 
43 

61 

93 



Defeated at the polls by 
Thompson, April 1927 
Doheny, Edw. Lawrence, Oil 
Multimillionaire. 
(They weren't all Republicans 
in that deal.) 
Doheny, Edw. Lawrence, Jr. 
In telegraphic communication 
with Fall, Jan. 1924 
Doherty, James, Cicero, (111.) 
Beer-running leader slain by 
machine guns, April 1926 
Doran, James M., Prohibition 
Commissioner. 
Reports on increase of illicit 
corn sugar distilling 
Dosch-Fleurot,Amo (The World) 
Dreiser, Theodore, author. 
Book banned in Boston 
Duff, John, Judge (Bos., Mass.) 
Feels that too liberal quotation 
from The Song of Solomon 
may tend to corrupt the 
minds of susceptible youth 
Duffy, Thomas, Cicero (111.) beer 
leader, wounded, April 1926 



E 



PAGE 

Text Cartoon 

74 



38 



38 



68 



118 
76 

108 



108 



68 



Eaton, Walter Pritchard, author. 
Among signators of protest 
against ban on "Circus 
Parade" 108 

Edison, Thomas Alva. 
Visits Coolidge at Old Home- 
stead, 1924 44 
Eisberg, Nathaniel, retiring Pres. 
Nat. Rep. Club. 
Denounces party traitors, 1924, 

lauds Coolidge 40 

Erskine, John, author. 

Signator of protest against ban 

on "Circus Parade" 108 

Europe 

Evans, Hiram Wesley, Imperial 
Wizard of K. K. K. 
Mentioned as having a bit of a 
tiff with Grand Dragon 
Stephenson of Indiana 92 

Eve, William, 

Brooklyn man driven to drink 

by wife's bobbed hair, 1925 52 



Fall, Albert Bacon, U. S. Sen. 
(R., N. Mex.). 
Reference to attack on his dept. 

by La Follette, 1922. 38 

Resignation, 1923. 38 

Denies receiving any consider- 
ation for leases, 1923 — guest 
of E. B. McLean at Palm 
Beach. 38 



[134] 



In communication with Lenroot 
(R., Wis.) and Smoot (R., 
Utah) 1924 
, former Sec. of the 



Interior. 
Record in Oil Scandal 
Farmer and Congress. 

"Selling him another gold 
brick" 
Farmer (Insurgent West). 
"Party Harmony" 
"The Straw Vote was purely 

urban" 
"I thought you were real mad" 
Father Knickerbocker (N. Y. 

City) 
Fess, Simeon D., Representative 
(R., 0.) 
At Last Rites of John Barley- 
corn 
Field, Carter (Herald Tribune) 



Firestone, Harvey J., Rubber 
Magnate. 
With Ford and Edison visits 
Coolidge at Old Homestead, 
1924 
Firpo, Louis Angel, boxer. 

Near victim of American vir- 
tue footnote 
Fisher, John S., Gov. of Penna. 
Appoints Joe Grundy to fill va- 
cancy caused by Mr. Vare's 
ineligibility for the U. S. 
Senate 
Flapper (The) 

In the Barber Shop 
Forbes, Col. Chas. R. (Veterans' 

Bureau) 
Ford, Henry. 

Visits Coolidge at Old Home- 
stead, 1924. 
Is presented with old sap bucket 
Hatches out new model 
Contests Senatorial election 
with Newberry, 1918-20 
Foley, William J., Dist. Att'y, 
Boston. 
Suppresses "Elmer Gantry" 
Footner, Herbert, author. 
Book banned in Boston 
France (as French business 
man) 
"But, Monsieur, where does it 
bend?" 



G 



Garner, John Nance, Represent- 
ative (D., Tex.). 
Favoring emergency tariff bill, 
Dec. 1920 



PAGE 
Text Cartoon 



38 

92 93 

19 

41 

67 
99 

76 



4 
28 
38 
44 



44 
108 

92 

53 

92 93 

79 



44 
78 

92 



108 

108 



81 



18 



Garrett, Oliver H. P. (The 

World) 
Georgius V Dei Gratia Rex Brit. 
Magn. Hiberniaeq: et Ind. 
Imp. 
On trial in Chicago 
Gibbons, Herbert Adams, of 
Princeton, N. J. 
Cited in testimony of Bausman 
(q. v.) as pro-British writer 
G. O. P. (The), as Elephant. 
"I am the Goddess of Peace" 
"Triumphal Entry into Nor- 
malcy" 

, as patent medicine 

quack. 
"Cures all the ills of man or 
beast" 

as The Fat Boy 



PAGE 

Text Cartoon 

76 



("Pickwick Papers") 
, as dear old gentle- 



"No Appetite" 

Makes a face at the nasty oil 
in the spoon 

"Third Term?" 

Holds up his hands in horror 
at Tammany 

(Looking a bit disreputable). 

"I know a gentleman when I see 
one" 

"Nobody but me can make you 
rich" 

"Sad Accident to a Political 
Sandow" 

, and the Bear. "Please 

go away" 

(As hard-boiled old gent). 

"Party Harmony" 

"But, Monsieur . . ." 
Gorman, John J. 

Prosecutor on the case of Big 
Bill vs. George V. 
Granburry, Edwin, author. 

Book banned in Boston 
Graydon, Charles E., Sheriff, Chi- 
cago. 

Fearful of serious disorder at 
1927 election 
Green, William, Pres. A. F. of L. 

Asks for legal beer 
Groesbeck, Alexander J., Gover- 
nor (R., Mich.). 

Appoints James Couzens to 
fill Newberry's unexpired 
term, 1922 
Grundy, Joseph, Tariff Lobbyist, 
U. S. Sen., (R., Penna.) 

Appointed by Gov. Fisher when 
Vare was barred 
Gumpertz, Samuel, prop, of 
Dreamland sideshows at Co- 
ney Island; offers "Zip", the 
missing link, as live testi- 



82 



82 



83 



3 
21 

23 
51 

29 

39 
73 

93 

95 

97 

125 

131 

41 
81 



82 
108 

74 
118 

92 
92 



[135] 



mony for Scopes trial, to 
Darrow 

Gunmen 

Gusenberg, Peter, Chicago gang- 
ster mentioned as having led 
Moran gang 



H 



Harding, Warren Gamaliel. 

U. S. Senator (R., 0.), Presi- 
dential Candidate. 

First campaign speech — quoted 

"The Canned Candidate In 
Action" 

Speech of Acceptance — quoted 

" 'Gainst the League, Ain't 
You, Warren?" 
, President. 

First message to Congress — 
Cool on League. 

Editorial comment of The 
World on same. 

Footnote on "normalcy" 

On Tariff, spring 1921. Quota- 
tion 

Reference to, apropos of Bonus 

Appealed to by Amer. Legion 

Annoyed, denounces space giv- 
en by press to destructive 
critics of Administration. 

Discusses Prohibition with 
Commissioner Haynes 

Reference to his authorizing 
transfer to Inter. Dept., '21. 

Assumes responsibility for 
oil transactions in message, 
June 1922 
Harvey, Col. George Brinton McC. 

Quotation from signed article in 
Washington Post, Sept. 1924 
Hayes, Carlton J., of Columbia 
University. 

Cited by Bausman (q. v.) as 
author of unpatriotic history 
book, which was assailed by 
the V. F. W. 
Haynes, Roy Asa, Prohibition 
Commissioner, N. Y. 

Discusses situation with Pres. 

Harding 

Hays, Wm. Harrison ("Will"), 

G. 0. P. Chairman, Film Czar 

Heflin, J. Thomas ("Tom Tom"), 

U. S. Sen. (D., Ala.). 

Gives the Scarlet Woman of 
Babylon several dreadful 
beatings on and off the floor 
of the Senate 

"You done good, Senator." 
Hemingway, Ernest. 

Scribner's banned in Boston on 
his account. "Highly objec- 
tionable" 



PAGE 






PAGE 


Text 


Cartoon 




Text Cartoon 








Hess, Wilbert, accomplice of Bly- 




56 






myer in York, Pa., "hex" 








69 


murder 
Hicks, F. C. 

Alien Property Custodian, suc- 


104 


68 






ceeding Thos. W. Miller in 

1925 
Hill, John Philip, Representative, 

(D., Md.), Wet 
Hoover, Herbert* Clark, Sec. of 

Commerce. 
Reference to an attack on him 


92 
26 


12 






by Sen. Tom Watson 
Report of invisible imports and 


28 






13 


exports 


30 


14 






, Presidential Candidate. 





15 



20 



20 

22 
24 
26 



28 
30 

38 

48 

82 

30 
92 

90 
108 



93 



91 



Comes out for nomination, calls 
Prohibition noble experiment. 
Says we did it "deliberately" 
-, Rep. Nominee for Pres. 



Hands out some political sooth- 
ing syrup, on the theme of the 
full dinner pail and the two- 
car garage 

Carries Nebraska 

(Pres. Elect). 



'Travelogue" 
, President. 



"Don't mind me, go right on 
working" 

Makes some remarks on the 
duration of the unemploy- 
ment crisis 

Exonerated by Deets Pickett of 
official evasion in case of Cali- 
fornia wine grape industry 

Receives report on Prohibition 
from his Fact-Finding Com- 
mission. Is not sure he likes 
all the facts or the possible 
conclusions 
Howard, Sir Esme, British Am- 
bassador to U. S. 

Named by Heflin as "Agent of 
the Roman Pope." 
Hughes, Chas. Evans, Sec'y of 
State. 

Speech in Phila. on aloofness 
from Europe 

"I sympathize deeply with 
you . . ." 

Successfully keeps Mr. New- 
berry out of jail, and gets 
case reversed in the Supreme 
Court 
Humanity "The Accuser" 
Hurst, Fanny, author. 

Among signators of protest 
against "Circus Parade" ban 
Inge, William Ralph, Dean of St. 
Paul's, London. 

Cited by Bausman (q. v.) as 
author of a most contemp- 
tuous book on America 



86 87 



96 
98 



115 



102 



124 



126 



128 129 



90 



36 



92 



108 



82 



37 



[136] 



PAGE 

Text Cartoon 



Insull, Samuel, Illinois Power 
Magnate. 
Heavy backer of Col. Frank 
Smith for the Senate 



Jackson, Maj. Edward, Gover- 
nor (R., Ind.) 
James, Edwin L. (Times) 
Johnson, Hiram, U. S. Sen. (R., 
Calif.). 
Quotation. 

Reference in Times editorial 
" 'Gainst the League, Ain't 
You, Warren?" 
Jones, Wesley, U. S. Sen. (R., 
Wash.). Influential Dry 



Kearney, Mex. War Gen., editor. 

ref . to 
Kellogg, Frank B. ("Nervous 
Nellie"), Sec'y of State. 
Peace pact announced 
Kelly, Oakley G., Lieut. Army 

flyer 
Kenyon, William Squire, U. S. 
Senator, (R., la.). 
At last rites of John Barley- 
corn 
Knight, C. L., Representative 
(R., Ohio). 
Calls opposition to Bonus politi- 
cal suicide 
Knapp, Mrs. Florence E. S., Rep. 

Sec'y of State, N. Y. 
Knox, Philander Chase, U. S. 
Sen., (R., Penna.) 
Mentioned as Anti-League 
"Triumphal Entry into Nor- 
malcy" 
Koehler, Dr. Wolfgang, scientist. 
Lecture on apes canceled by 
Univ. of N. C, 1925 
Kramer, John F., Prohibition 
Commissioner, 1920. 
At last rites of John Barley- 
corn 
Ku Klux Klan (Klansman) 

"The Nordic's Saturday Night" 
"You done good, Senator." 



La Follette, Robert M., Sr., 
U. S. Sen. (Insurgent R., 
Wis.). 



92 



92 93 

80 



14 



116 



32 

84 
32 



15 



26 
92 

14 
58 



93 



21 



49 
91 



Attacks Fall and oil leases, 

April 1922 
Denounced by Dawes as radical 
LaGuardia, Fiorello, Repr., (Wet 
Rep., N. Y.). 
Reference to his wet resolution 
Leach, Margaret, author. 

Among signators of protest on 
behalf of "Circus Parade" 
Lenroot, Sen. (R., Wis.), Chair- 
man of investigating com. 
Lewis, Sinclair, author. 

Book banned in Boston, 1927 
Lindbergh, Charles A., Jr. 
Lindley, Ernest K. (World) 
Lippmann, Walter (Herald Trib- 
une, "To-day and To-mor- 
row") 
[Littell, Robert] (N. Y. Evening 

Post) , editorial by 
Lodge, Henry Cabot, U. S. Sen. 
(R., Mass.). 
Denounces Wilson — quotation 
Leadership against Wilson — 
post election report in Boston 
Transcript 
"Triumphal Entry into Nor- 
malcy" 
Reservation for World Court 

plan 
"The Bomb Maker" 
Lowman, Seymour, Treas. Dept. 
(Asst. Sec.) 



M 



McAdoo, William Gibbs, Demo- 
cratic Convention, 1924 
"The Synthetic Cowboy" (gets 
thro wed) 

McAndrew, William, Chicago Su- 
perintendent of Schools, on 
trial for alleged pro-British 
tendencies 

McCoy, Samuel (Times) 

McCray, Warren T., former Gov- 
ernor (R., Ind.) 

Macready, Lieut. John A., Army 
flyer 

McCumber, Porter James, U. S. 
Sen. (R., N. D.). 
Chairman Finance Committee, 
1922 

McGrath, Thos. J., Mayor of 
Quincy, Mass. 

MacNider, Hanford, Nat'l Com- 
mander Amer. Legion. 
Telegram to Pres. Harding 

McLean, Edw. B., publisher of 
Washington Post. 
Host of Fall at Palm Beach, 
1924 



PAGE 
Text Cartoon 

38 
48 



118 



108 

38 

108 

76 

100 



130 

78 



20 



34 



118 



42 



82 
46 

92 

32 

24 
108 

26 
38 



76 



21 



35 



43 



93 



[-37] 



McSwiggin, William, "hanging 
prosecutor" of Cook County, 
slain by machine guns, April 
1926 
Madden, Martin Barnaby, Repr. 
(R., Hi.). 
Against emergency tariff bill 
of 1920 
Malone, Dudley Field, lawyer. 
Prefers Coolidge to Davis on 
basis of public utterances 
Mann, Arthur E. (World) 
Marks, Percy, author. 

Book banned in Boston 
Means, Gaston, Detective and 

author 
Mencken, H[enry] L[ouis]. 
Sends regrets to Mayor 
Thompson at being unable 
to testify in Chicago Public 
School case 
Acquitted in "Hatrack" case, 
Boston, 1926 
Merz, Charles, author, (also on 
World editorial staff). 
"The Dry Decade" 
Michelson, Charles (World) 

"The Political Undertow" 
Miller, Col. Thos. W[oodnutt], 
Alien Property Custodian un- 
der Harding 
Milroy, John, of Colp, 111. 

Machine-gun victim, Nov. 1926 
Mitchell, Charles E., Chairman 
of the National City Bank. 
Is optimistic on Oct. 22, 1929 
Moran, George ("Bugs"). 

Members of his gang victims 
in Valentine's Day massacre, 
1929 
Moses, George H[iggins], U. S. 
Sen. (R., N. H.). 
Fears Coolidge will not run 
again 
Murphy, William C, Jr. (World) 



N 



New, Harry S., Postmaster Gen. 
under Coolidge. 
Warns of Red menace if elec- 
tion is deadlocked 

Newberry, Truman H[andy] 
U. S. Sen. (R., Mich.) 

Newman, Frances, author. 

Book banned in Boston, 1927 
Newton, W. H., Repr. (R., 
Minn.). 
View on emergency tariff, Dec. 
1920 



PAGE 
Text Cartoon 



68 



18 



46 
62 

108 

92 



82 
108 



4 
34 
38 
94 



92 

68 

112 
68 



72 
114 



50 

28 
92 

108 



18 



93 



93 



Nichols, Dudley (World) 
Norris, Geo. W., U. S. Sen., 
(Smith Rep., Neb.) 
Farm vote fails to follow him 
Norris, Rev. J. Frank ("Killer") 
(Bapt.). 
Assails modernists as wolves 
in sheep's clothing, Dec. 1923 
Carries on Anti-Evolution fight 
Norton, Mrs. Mary T., Repr., (D., 
N. J.) 
Author of resolution calling for 
referendum on 18th Amend- 
ment 



O'Banion, Dean, gang leader. 

Organizer of Moran gang 
O'Donnell, "Klondyke", Cicero, 

111., beer running leader 
"Official Spokesman" (The). 

"His Master's Voice" 
O'Neill, Eugene, playwright. 
Boston ban on his play, Sept. 
1929. Play is put on in Quincy, 
and fills the house 
Owen, Robt. Latham, U. S. Sen. 
At last rites of John Barleycorn 



Pascal, Ernest, author. 

Book banned in Boston 
Pattangall, Wm. R., Democratic 
Candidate for Governor of 
Maine, 1924. 
Patrick, Diana, author. 

Book banned in Boston 
Patterson, Capt. Geo. A., vice 
squad, Boston, Mass. 
Censor librorum. "Multum ob- 
stat." 
"Peabody, a Massachusetts man 
named". 
Cited in testimony of Bausman 
at Chicago as author of scan- 
dalous pro-British pamphlet 
Peay, Gov. Austin, of Tenn. 
Signs Anti-Evolution bill 
Penrose, Boies, U. S. Sen. (R., 
Penna.). 
Backs Tariff 
Pepper, Geo. Wharton, U. S. Sen., 
(R., Penna.) 
Receives Legion protests on 
Bonus stand 
Phillips, Alfred N., Jr., Mayor of 
Stamford, Conn. 
Telegraphic correspond, with 
the Mayor of Chicago, Octo- 
ber, 1927 



PAGE 

Text Cartoon 
104 



98 



56 

58 



118 



68 
68 



108 

4 



65 



108 

48 
108 

108 

82 
56 

22 
26 

82 



[138] 



PAGE 
Text Cartoon 



'My 



Pickett, Deets (Elbert), notorious 
Dry worker. 

Assails Mrs. Willebrandt and 
the California grape con- 
cerns. Exonerates the Presi- 
dent of duplicity in this par- 
ticular bit of practical farm 
relief 
Poindexter, Miles, U. S. Sen. (R., 
Wash.). 

Acting Chairman, Commander 
on Naval Affairs, 1922 
Pomerene, Altee, U. S. Sen., (D., 
Ohio.). 

Will go west to cancel oil leases 
Prohibition, Spirit of 

"Now then, all together: 
country, 'tis of thee'!" 

"The Rival Ringmasters" 

"Here's How!" 

"Buck up, you're a noble fellow" 

"Don't mind me, go right on 
working" 

"Now see here, young man . . ." 

"The Leaning Tower shows 
Signs of Collapse" 

"The Economic Depression Hits 
a Noble Experiment 

"The Lost Sheep" 

"Hosannah!" 
Puman, John R., Amer. Consul. 

Reports hair-bobbing has ruined 
hair trade of Chefoo, China 



Q 



Quinn, Percy E., Repr., (D., 
Miss.). 
Against tariff bill, Dec. 1920 



R 



Rappleyea, Geo. W., Dayton 
(Tenn.) business man. 
Complainant in Scopes test case 

"Red" Scarecrow 

Rehmeyer, Nelson, York, Penna., 
"Powwow." Slain as "hex" 

Republican Party, personified, see 
"G. 0. P." 

Riley, Rev. Wm. Bell (Bapt.). 
Carries on Anti-Evolution fight 

Roberts, A. H., Gov. (D., Tenn.), 
word received from, that 
Tenn. legislature has ratified 
the XlXth Amendment 

Robinson, Joseph T., U. S. Sen., 
(D., Ark.) 
Strangely lacking in enthu- 
siasm for Heflin. Senate 
Democrats vote confidence in 
his leadership 



126 

38 
38 



5 
27 
71 
87 

115 
117 

119 

123 
127 
129 



52 



18 



56 

104 

58 
16 

90 



51 



Rogers, Will, ex-cowboy, actor, 
writer. 
Referred to in editorial com- 
ment on Coolidge's daily 
oracles 
Roosevelt, Archie (son of T. R. 
the elder). 
Spills a few beans in testifying 
he quit Sinclair employ 
Roosevelt, Franklin D. 

Smith's manager in 1924 Con- 
vention 
Inaugurated as Governor, N. Y. 
Roosevelt, Mrs. James, mother of 
the Governor. 
Present at the Inauguration, 
Jan. 1, 1929 



Sands, Francis, Long Island 
farmer buried near Hunting- 
ton, 1857. 
Treated as Vampire, 1927 
Scopes, John T., teacher. 

Tried for unsettling faith of 
Tennessee children 
Seibold, Louis (World) 
Senate, The U. S. (as Roman 

Senator) 
Sheppard, Morris, U. S. Sen. (D., 
Tex.). 
At Last Rites of John Barley- 
corn 
Author of guilty buyer liquor 
bill 
Sinclair, Harry Ford, Oil Mag- 
nate. 
Declines to answer questions, 

Dec. 1923 
General notes and picture 
Sinclair, Upton, radical author. 
Goes to Boston to fight suppres- 
sion of "Oil" 
Slemp, C. Bascom, Sec'y to Cool- 
idge. 
Vacation 1924. Golf at Wood- 
stock 
Writes letter to Jos. Branin 
Small, Lennington, Governor (R., 
111.), (q.v.). 
Orders Black to go to Chicago 
and judge whether that ex- 
tremity is justified 
Notes on career in Illinois. 
Picture 
Smith, Alfred Emanuel. 

Deadlock with McAdoo, 1924 

convention 
Decorates Lindbergh, May 21, 
1927 



PAGE 
Text Cartoon 



120 



38 



42 
100 



100 



104 



56-58 
10 



118 



38 
92 



108 



44 
48 



74 



92 



42 



76 



93 



93 



[139] 



Assailed by Heflin. "Forsan et 

hoc olim meminisse iuvabit" 

Note on whispering campaign 

against him 
Turns his office over to Gover- 
nor Roosevelt 
Watching G. O. P. strong man 
Smith, Col. Frank L., unseatable 

Senator, (R., 111.) 
Smith, Hoke, U. S. Sen. to 1921 
(D., Ga.). 
Entertains J. J. Walker, 1925 
Smith, Pauline, author. 

Book banned in Boston 
Smoot, Reid, U. S. Sen. (R., 
Utah.) 
Member of Investigating Com- 
mittee 
Snob (male). 

"I know a gentleman when I 
see one" 
Stafford, William H., Repr. (R., 

Wis.) 
Steadman, Marshall W., old man 
of Tyringham who made 
hickory rakes presented by 
Treadway to Coolidge 
Stephenson, David C, Grand 

Dragon, Indiana Klan 
Sterling, Thomas, U. S. Sen. 
At last rites of John Barley- 
corn 
Sterling, Lt. Gov. of 111. 

Co-defendant with Gov. Small 
in Grant Park Bank case 
Stern, Lawrence (World, finan- 
cial writer) 

Stone, Mrs. Claudia E. 

Sues to break the lease of stu- 
dio at 14 E. 44th Street (Gov- 
ernment speakeasy) 
Stone, Jeff, Mayor of Colp, 111. 

Slain by machine guns, Nov. 
1926 
Straton, Rev. John Roach, 
(Bapt.) 

Cited by Rev. Norris as ex- 
ample of what God could 
have made out of a donkey, 
gorilla, or orang-outan, if He 
had felt like creating man 
that way 

Carries on Anti-Evolution fight 



Taft (William Howard) U. S. 
Sen. 
Mentioned by Times editorial 
as pro-League 



PAGE 




Text 


Cartoon 


90 






94 






100 




101 
125 



92 

60 
108 

38 

26 

44 
92 

4 

92 

110 
112 

70 
68 



56 
58 



93 



95 



93 



14 



Tammany Tiger 

Tartarcio, Mrs. Augustino, "The 
Witch of Ellwood City (Pa.) " 
Taylor, John Thomas, Vice Chair- 
man of Legislative Comm., 
Amer. Legion 
Thompson, John W., St. Louis 
Contractor. 
Co-defendant and Co-convict 
with Col. Forbes in Veterans' 
Bureau case 
Thompson, William Hale ("Big 
Bill"). 
Elected to his third term as 

Mayor, April 5, 1927 
Twists the British Lion's tail 
Among the G. O. P. angels 
Tinkham, Geo. Holden, Repr. 
(Wet Rep., Mass.). 
Assails Anti-Saloon League 
lobbying 
Treadway, (Allan T.), Repr., 
(R., Mass.). 
Skeptical about emergency 

tariff Dec. 1920 
With Mrs. T. visits Coolidges at 
Plymouth, Vt., presents rus- 
tic rakes 
Tucker, Ray (World-Telegram) 
Tully, Jim, author. 
Book banned in Boston 



U 



Uncle Sam 

Being sold a protective tariff 

Being sold "Prosperity" 
, and Farmer. 

"I thought you were real mad" 
U. S. (Amer. Eagle). 

"No Appetite" 
Underwood, Oscar W., U. S. Sen. 
(D., Ala.). 

Dem. convention of 1924 



Vare, William Scott, unseatable 
Senator (R., Penna.) 

Vause, W. Bernard, Judge. 

Hears case of Brooklyn man 
driven to drink by wife's 
bobbed hair (1925) 

Volstead, Andrew J., Repr. (R., 
Minn.). 
At Last Rites of John Barley- 
corn 

W 

Walker, James J., New York's 
best-dressed mayor. 



PAGE 

Text Cartoon 
61 

104 



26 



92 



74 




82 


83 


92 


93 



26 



18 



44 
126 

108 



23 
97 

99 



29 



42 



92 



52 



93 



[ MO] 



Feted by Georgia Democrats, 
Nov. 1925 

Welcomes Lindbergh at City- 
Hall 
Wallace, Hugh C, Former Am- 
bassador. 

Smith-McAdoo conference in 
his room at the Ritz-Carlton 
Walsh, Thos. J., U. S. Sen. (D., 
Mont.). 

Referred to in Fall telegram 
on examination of witnesses 
in oil investigation 
Warner, Mrs. John A. (Emily 
Smith). 

Leaves Albany with her father, 
Jan. 1, 1929 
Washburn, Geo. F., Fla. real- 
estate magnate. 

Offers money to establish 
Fundamentalist university 
Watson, Thomas E., U. S. Sen. 
(D., Ga.). 

Reference to an attack on 
Hoover, Sec. of Commerce, 
1922 
Weiss, Hymie, former leader of 

Moran gang 
Wheeler, Wayne B., godfather 
of the Goblin In The Tall 
Black Hat. 

At Last Rites of John Barley- 
corn 

In gallery of House — replies to 
Tinkham 



page 
Text Cartoon 

60 

76 



42 

38 

100 

58 

28 
68 

4 
26 



Signator Dry drive announce- 
ment by Anti-Saloon League 
Calls drinker of poison alcohol 
deliberate suicide 
White, William Allen, Editor The 
Emporia Gazette (Kan.). 
Among the signators of protest 
against Boston ban on 
"Circus Parade" 
Wickersham, George W., lawyer. 
Hooked by Hoover to head a 
Presidential Commission 
Willebrandt, Mrs. Mabel Walker, 
former Asst. Att'y-Gen., fal- 
len from Dry hierarchy. 
"The Lost Sheep" 
Willis, Frank B., U. S. Sen. (R., 
O.). 
Scores suggestion of Butler 
that Coolidge should not run 
again 
Wilson, Clarence True, Gen. Sec. 
Meth. Bd. T. P. & P. M. 
Admits Mabel caught the Drys 
napping 
Wilson, Woodrow, Pres. 

Vetos Fordeny emerg. tariff 
Dec. 1920 footnote 

Denounced — quotation from 

Lodge 
Referred to in World editorial 
Witch on a broomstick, York, Pa., 

1929 
Woman (Voter). 
"The End of the Climb" 



PAGE 

Text Cartoon 



26 



70 



108 



71 



126 



72 



126 



18 
22 



105 



117 



127 

