
With the Centre having taken a firm stand over the protests at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) against the hanging of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru, Union Human Resource and Development (HRD) Minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday said that an insult to India in any form would not be tolerated by the country."Today is the say you worship Saraswati and the goddess blesses everyone so that the voices from their throats are directed towards the upliftment and strengthening of the nation. These voices are meant for praising India, but the nation won't tolerate any insults to Mother India," Irani told the media.

The HRD Minister's statement comes after Home Minister Rajnath Singh asserted that strict action will be taken against the demonstrators and said that 'anti-national' elements will not be tolerated."When someone is in the country and raises anti-national statements, raising questions on India's unity, diversity and sovereignty then they won't be forgiven. What happened in JNU was unfortunate and for that, I have already given the necessary instructions to the Delhi Police Commissioner," Rajnath told ANI.

Promising firm action against the demonstrators, he reiterated that anti-national statements cannot be forgiven."You can't raise anti-national statements while you stay in India," he added.

Earlier, the Delhi Police registered a case of sedition against the JNU students who had agitated against the hanging of Guru following complaints by Bharatiya Janata Party MP Maheish Girri and RSS's student front Akhil Bharatiya Vidhyarthi Parishad.

Marking the death anniversary of Guru, a group of students on Tuesday held an event on the campus and shouted slogans against government for hanging him, despite varsity administration having cancelled the permission following a complaint by ABVP members, who termed the activity as "anti-national".

Chanting Vande Mataram and waving the Tricolour, the lawyers had forced their way into the court complex. “A person has come dressed as a lawyer and beaten him up (Kanhaiya) inside the court premises,” defence lawyer Vrinda Grover said. “The police couldn’t do anything, it’s a complete violation of the Supreme Court order.

”Kanhaiya was attacked twice — the first assault took place when he was being led into the court premises and again when he was entering Court Number 3. “A man wearing a grey blazer and sporting dark glasses thrashed him,” JNU professor Himanshu said. In a written submission to Metropolitan Magistrate Lovleen, Kanhaiya said his “hair was pulled” and his “chest boxed”. The court ordered his medical examination inside the court room in view of “the hostile conditions prevalent outside court room (as is evident from the sloganeering available inside the court room and the statement given by the accused), it is directed that DCP shall personally ensure safety of the accused”.

A doctor from RML Hospital, who examined him, told The Indian Express that Kanhaiya had “abrasions” on his nose and “bruises on his toes”. In a statement at the start of the proceedings, Kanhaiya said: “I am an Indian, I have full faith in the Constitution of the country as well as the judiciary of India. The media trial against me is very painful. If there is evidence against me that I am a traitor, then you please send me to jail. But if there no evidence against me, there should be no media trial.” Under fire for his handling of the JNU row, Delhi Police Commissioner B S Bassi, who had gone to the Prime Minister’s Office in the morning, said if Kanhaiya applies for bail, then police will not object to it. “I personally feel, a young person… perhaps be given bail,” he told reporters. This was a complete U-turn because Bassi had earlier said police had enough “evidence” against Kanhaiya.
